This is one of the most deliciously bonkers and intensely fucked up stories that I’ve ever read—and I loved it.Our narrator wakes up in a dripping forest, with nothing but the shade of an old unnameable fear, and the eerie sensation of being followed, an invisible gaze locked on his back. He has no recollection of who he is and no notion of how he got there. He can only remember one name: Anna.He later learns that his name is Aiden Bishop and that he’s trapped inside a stranger’s body. A masked figure curtly informs him that he must unveil a murder disguised as to not look like one if he wants to earn his release, and he must do so by reliving the day of the murder eight times, but each morning he will wake up in the body of a different stranger. If he fails to uncover the name of the would-be murderer, he will return to the first day, memory mopped clean, and start all over again as he has apparently already done innumerable times before. Matters are made worse when Aiden realizes he isn’t the only one washed to this strange shore: two other people are also ensnarled inside this time loop, and a knife-wielding Footman is out for their blood. Quickly Aiden realizes that he, Anna, and the anonymous rivals are pieces on the game board with everything at stake. Including their lives. “How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?” So. As I said: it’s bonkers, alright.The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a dazzling, mind-bending murder mystery… without a murder. It’s unlike anything I’ve ever read: a brilliantly balanced knife's edge of a book—unfolding gradually, with secrets unveiled as more lies are told. The whole experience of reading this book felt to me like an elaborate lie, like some made-up fantasyland I was locked in for a set number of hours a day. And like Aiden, I was constantly caught between another dead end and another lead. So many pieces of the story but how the hell do they fit together?The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle might be focused on the story of Aiden Bishop but the stories of many others are caught up in the wheel of his, and as that wheel turns, so do these many intertwined lives and fates. The narration lingers in the memories and lives of each “host”, dipping in and out of them like toes in a pool. The book makes you question what you know about these characters, their lives and their secrets. Everyone is unreliable, everything is questionable. Aiden’s very sense of self is threatened to be overruled by the personalities of his hosts, most of which were nasty pieces of work: more than slightly sexist, selfish, mean, manipulative, abusive, more often than not physical and moral cowards—yet still compelling even when you can’t bring yourself to like them even a little bit.In inventiveness and richness of ideas, few books in this genre can compare. I was continuously impressed by the novel’s sense of scope, the minute turnings of characters and their choices and how those ripples affect other players, by the hints strewn like breadcrumbs throughout the narrative and the puzzle pieces that were always moving around. This was genuinely brilliant and so intricately crafted and I’m still REELING from it. The ending was simply insane, and I was left astounded into an awed slow-clap at everything the author has accomplished. When I flipped the last page, all I could do was stare at the wall and ask, with the kind of eloquence and poise perfectly befitting the situation: "What the fuck did I just read?"