6th reread. Still perfect, still fuckin' glorious, still as magical as the first time.------------------------------4th reread and my heart feels full. FULL TO THE BRIM! It's overflowing with complete adoration for this book and series. I'm so damn thankful for its existence. 😭------------------------------[3rd reread! — 30/04/2017 - 08/05/2017]------------------------------[2nd reread! — 24/04/17 - 30/04/2017]FIVE FUCKING GLORIOUS STARS!!! 🌟 *endlessly bows down to SJM*------------------------------Post-review emotions:It's been 2 months since I last read this book and I still don't think I can write a comprehensive review, so don't expect something cohesive. I just want to fill this review up with the heart-eye emojis.Minor spoilers will be included. You've been warned.This book is incredible. This book is important. But before I get to that, this book was a massive, gigantic improvement on ACOTAR. They're not even the same two books. Or they are, but ACOMAF elevated this series to what it deserved and needed to be. The world was epic, detailed and grand and I never wanted to leave. Everything about it clicked. I was absolutely transported into a world that I became obsessed and enthralled with. The pacing was beautifully slow, but well paced and the build up was great. So, the story line picks up right where it left off, with Feyre and Tamlin being back in the Spring Court, and now having to suffer from PTSD and anxiety. I absolutely love how SJM explored this and showcased how they were both affected by what happened in the events of the last book. Now, I was afraid that Tamlin's character was going to be completely bashed and written off since readers were hating on him and since I really liked his character in ACOTAR, that had me worried. But as I read on, the progression with his character made sense. As much as I loathed how he became, it's understandable and true to real life. His PTSD took on a different form. Sadly, that form became more emotionally abusive, manipulative and controlling. It was almost unbearable to even read. It was ugly but it needed to be there. Feyre just lost herself. She didn't know who she was anymore. Her trauma unfolded in a way that changed her completely and led her to who she truly needed to become.I absolutely loved how SJM incorporated those aspects into the story and how Feyre grew and continued to beautifully grow throughout the book. Facing setbacks, but ultimately, finding herself and her voice again. That 'human' element made it so relatable and warm. And the depth that SJM went into for both characters was impressive and you couldn't help but be invested and feel a strong sense of empathy. But what I loved more than anything was that SJM showed what a healthy and unhealthy relationship is. What to stand and not to stand for, depending on the standards you've set for yourself and which ultimately, you decide for yourself. 'Twas fuckin feminist as fuck, whilst also incorporating what true friendship and a healthy and loving relationship can do for your worth. To ultimately put your wellbeing ahead of everything so you may recognise the signs of an imbalanced relationship.And Rhysand? I need him in human form. Sometime soon, universe. This book just has so many fantastical and realistic elements to it. I loved that we were able to take something a way from it, enjoy it, and I'm even happier that SJM decided to extend this series. I mean, more Rhysand, amirite?! ------------------------------Original review:Wow. Wow. Wow. How the fuck does one even write a review for this?! My mind has been obliterated. I'm done.