So, I’d like to gently speak my mind.. and address some of the conflicting arguments about this from my point of view. I’d like to speak to a variety of audiences and opinions here. But please note, this book is not for everyone. Hopefully I can clear some of that up.I will mark spoilers, I promise. First of all, this is NA. I don't care who says what or what marketer or bookstore shelves this as children or YA, this book is very very graphic and explicit. Now, that being said, I personally just skip over the explicit pages. It is quite easy to do- several reviews include page numbers for those who aren't a fan or can't handle that type of material (more info at the bottom of this review).
To those who are afraid of a love triangle:
This book, I believe, will surprise you. This is NOT a love triangle. This is NOT an overlapping story of a girl who is torn between two men. This is NOT a book of angst or decision making of who suits Feyre better. 
To those who are hardcore Tamlin shippers:
I think the news has spread that your love interest will be challenged in this book. All I can tell you is to go go into this book with a realization that you truly don’t have all the information of what really happened in the first book. If you don’t want your feelings to bleed a little bit.. and you want a glitzy continuation of the little fairytale romance you got in the first half of the first book, this book is NOT for you. Yes, she sacrificed immensely for him… but that DOES mean something and is not swept under the rug.. even if this book challenges her former motive on it. It changed the world, and you see the result. 
To those who do not like the idea of Maas changing a love interest and are really peeved with her writing style:
I feel you. I really do. It is only because you have a big heart that you want true love to happen and stick to the characters. I can’t tell you if you will like this book- but I can promise you a wild ride of REALISTIC emotions… characters that make mistakes out of broken hearts, characters that are broken, shattered, and misunderstood. Just like real life. Just like people we talk to every day. 
To those who believe the characters are acting out of character: 
We, as readers, believed so much of what we read in the first book. Like Feyre, we soaked up the sparkly love in the book… we didn’t see the warning signs of the relationship that she sacrificed everything for. I went back and reread parts... and I realized that Maas was leaving us clues the entire first book. Tamlin is not perfect.. and he is acting out of the own holes in his heart. All of the characters are hurting in the first part of this book. **Mild spoilers below** but I’ll mark the really big onesFeyre is utterly and completely broken at the beginning of this book. She has every right to be. She is suffering from serious PTSD. I guess a lot of readers are giving her a hard time for it but I’d like to see anyone go through the amount of hell this girl went through and come out any better than she. Any of you (like me) who have suffered through anxiety/panic attacks/etc will be able to relate to her in this, I think. This is a story of healing, and I loved the complete honesty of this book. 
As for the relationship... 
This, to me… depicts what love SHOULD look like. Feyre gets out of a relationship that she didn’t realize was toxic until it nearly killed her. YES, Tamlin was only trying to protect her and show her love in his way, but it wasn’t right. Good intentions do not always mean good decisions. Love should not be based on the physical demands of a relationship. Love is selfless, love does not envy. Tamlin would not communicate with her.. he did not see her as his equal, as his teammate… he only saw her as a lover. Rhysand stepped in and shattered all of those lies planted in her head. He empowered her, which is what your partner SHOULD do. Yes, Tamlin was made out to be a little bit of a monster in this book.. YES I see why that upsets people. But here’s the thing… Maas was making a point here… one that I whole heartedly agree with. You do NOT have to stay in a relationship that binds you up. No, this book isn't perfect. There are most definitely flaws and things Maas could have done better (seriously, stop with the purring). While I agreed with most of the relationship issues and the way things were handled, that remains true. Lastly - Please note that this book is EXTREMELY graphic. I would have preferred certain scenes to not be so...TMI... or explicit.. so sensitive readers, beware. Somehow audible has this listed for 11-13 year olds. Please do not let your 11 year old child read this book… this is NA, not YA. *though small note- I'm seeing a lot of buzz about sexual situations that didn't actually happen in this book... like did we read the same book? Yes, there is explicit content- but not the way I've read in some of the reviews. The marketers of this book should be held responsible for not labeling it correctly - so those who are upset should message them / spread the word.***This was a buddy read with the lovely Laurie who has the biggest heart… Thank you for sharing this with me!! GO read her review! And to  Cait  who let me message her like 10x an hour (no joke) and helped me get through this book... seriously THANK YOU. I wouldn’t have survived. My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy