Re-read via Audible!*********************Officially have finished my re-read and I feel exactly the same as I did last time... Anxious for the next book in hopes that SJM doesn't ruin my life and officially entering into a major book slump. Come on Tuesday WHERE YOU AT?!?!Updated Thoughts Is it possible to write anything worth talking about without giving away spoilers? I'm assuming you've read ACOTAR if you're reading this review, so if not stop here. Spoilers from previous book are guaranteed. I'll be honest, I never fully bought the Tamlin/Feyre line up, even before Rhys, so for me I wasn't completely won over until Under the Mountain happened. (Amarantha is a fav villain of mine now). So glad all that happened that I thought was not important tied into this one. Feyre: Ok girl. I'm glad you are starting to grow a spine. I know you went through a lot being poor and starving, but sometimes I wanted to slap you in the Spring Court. I'm amazed at how quickly I was ready to abandon everything you knew there once Rhys entered the picture (JK not really because Tamlin's no good), but I'm glad things got turned upside down. I think your ending in this book was perfect; so glad to see you where you belong, doing what you want to be doing, as an equal and not a pet. Tamlin: Alrighty you... I'm not your biggest fan. I hate your guts and hope you get a swift kick in the balls asap. However, I think the author has set you up to redeem yourself in ACOWAR if you so choose. You are also really dumb and seem to see none of the things going on around you. Stop being a tool. Also, I'm fairly certain I wondered for 2 entire books what purpose you serve, but I see how the meat of this story wouldn't exist without your setting up all the parts we love. So thank you for that. And grow your hair back out. Man bun it up please. Rhys ILY ILY ILY ILY ILY. Perfection; every bit of how she wrote you in was perfection. Every tiny detail that went back to connect other details from page 1 in ACOTAR was mind blowing. You have the best ideas and I'm sorry it took Feyre so long to see that. Thanks for being so sexy and wonderful. And for not being a tool like Tam Tam. Lucien: You're dead to me prick. Ok not really, but I'm mad at you and you have to win me back over in book #3. And please more of you and Elain. Mor, Amren, Cassian, Az: Love you all and thanks for being the best gang around. Can't wait to catch up in May. More Nesta/Cassian and Mor/Az please. Also, all the newborn fae is a little much and I'm still not convinced in the necessity of all that. Maybe Amren and Tam Tam the brute? I'm feeling it. Alis(sp?): Miss you boo. Hope all is well and we see you in #3.Original Post: Well.... I don't even have the words right now, but I have no idea how to start another book until my hangover from this one disappears. SO much better than ACOTAR! Still die hard Rhys fangirl. I should stop asking myself if it's possible to hate Tamlin anymore, because somehow it keeps happening. I'm giving Lucien the silent treatment right now. I'll say, I was expecting some big cliffhanger of an ending from reading other's reviews before I started this, and while it did set up perfectly and leave it wide open for ACOWAR, I loved the ending! Yes it ripped my heart apart and ruined me a bit, but I thought it was genius. Going to process a bit more before a full review, but in the meantime will try to figure out what to do with myself until May.