Sometimes there are no words, and those reviews are the hardest.ACOTAR was a contrary introduction to the series: flawed and splendid, slow and action-packed. It featured a heroine who drove many crazy with her senseless decision-making and a plot which only emerged in the last hundred pages of the book. The rest was mostly romance, and a glimpse into a rich world.
And I loved it.
 I didn't love the pacing which was split 3-parts-romance, 1-part-action, in a fantasy book. I didn't love the initial plot. But I loved the fragments of the world we got to see, and I endlessly loved the flawed characters.The. Flawed. Characters. Beautifully flawed, tragically flawed, humanly flawed. Feyre, who had never gotten a chance to allow her sense to catch up with how quickly her instincts had been forced to grow up. Lucien, whose better judgment was rarely better, and rarely judgment, and who fled physical horrors only to spend a hundred years bracing against mental horrors and came out of it sassy, hilarious and shielded. Rhysand, who traded brute strength and weapons for secrets and schemes, and whose outward battles seemed to wage a larger war against his internal ones. And Tamlin, who was as big of a puzzle at the end as he was at the beginning.My expectations for ACOMAF were astronomical. They were higher than astronomical. I held it to a standard that I thought no book could ever achieve.And those expectations were laughable - just laughable compared to what I got in their stead. My 'astronomical' was surpassed around chapter 5. Sarah J. Maas had me expecting romance, sexual tension, some societal squabbles and light political scheming. But in that world, with those characters, it would have been a dream.But what I got instead... *laughs* (See: line 1 of this review for my in-depth thoughts. That's right, they are all screaming too loudly for one to winnow the others out.) 
(And yes, that was an ACOMAF pun right there.)
It's not just that the world expands, it's the wonder it expands into. From a single mansion and a single cavernous dungeon to sprawling courts, kingdoms, entire worlds, all intricately weaved together and all rich and vivid and... amazing. I'm not just saying this. I was dead serious that time I offered up my soul in exchange for life in certain parts of Prythian. The world is that glorious thing that happens once in a blue book (and blue it is!), where to pry yourself away from it makes this real world so bleak by comparison. (Don't live in books, children. But leave me in this one forever. Do as I say, not as I do.) I am now a proud citizen of Velaris, and I shall defend it with my soul.(For example, I scream at its enemies when they attempt to uncover it. And by scream, I mean throat: hoarse, neighbors: concerned, explanation: futile. It was a blast.)And then there are the flawed characters. Those flawed characters I loved so much who now evolve. Progress. Regress. Unravel. Dim. Shine. NEVER has Sarah J. Maas done character development like this. Not like this. And never could I have imagined it being this good. One, whose development goes in a way I've never ever seen done in YA to this extent. One, whose development goes exactly as expected - sinister, and cruel, and scheming, and awful. One, whose renewed struggle mirrors their past and regurgitates old fears. One, who was nothing like what they seemed. One, who was exactly what they seemed. And a new cast I loved so, so very much that they are my honorary family and don't you dare tell me they aren't real.I know people who can hurt you. And they may or may not live in Prythian. Beware.But none of this was as mindblowing as the themes. This is a book of plot, a book of messages, and a book of subtle, background romance and powerful, foreground themes. It's a sort of fantasy that weaves subtext of such enormous importance into an utterly engaging plot. I cannot, cannot explain what the exploration of abuse, consent, agency, freedom, depression, captivity, trauma and anxiety has meant to me.There will never be words, possibly. I've done the best I can with the ones I have at my disposal. The real words, though... they just don't exist quite yet.