❝I was not a pet, not a doll, not an animal. I was a survivor, and I was strong. I would not be weak, or helpless again. I would not, could not be broken. Tamed.❞

A Court of Thorns and Roses was one of the first books I started reading that got me into Fantasy and reviewing books. Way back when this series, the Throne of Glass series, and Sarah J. Maas, herself, wasn't hyped up like there's no tomorrow. It was the first book I've read by Sarah J. Maas and the reason I picked up the Throne of Glass series because I just needed more SJM in my life.I was satisfied with the way things ended in ACOTAR so when I heard that some "changes" were going to be made in A Court of Mist and Fury, I was a little disappointed. I was NOT a fan of the changes that were made in the Throne of Glass series which was why I haven't picked up Queen of Shadows yet even though the book has been sitting on my shelf since the day it's been released. That's just my opinion. I know some SJM fans are going to start pouncing because they sincerely believe that Sarah could absolutely do no wrong. Don't get me wrong, I LOVE SARAH J. MAAS. She is an outstanding author. I love her writing, her characters, and the world that she brings to life. It was her books that changed my perspective on Young Adult Fantasy, but I honestly wouldn't say that I agree with every direction that SJM takes with her books.I suppose the questions to ask now are: what was my stance at the end of ACOTAR and how did I perceive the changes that were made after reading ACOMAF?Let me address the most important aspect of Sarah J. Maas's books, this series, and probably the thing that majority of readers care about the most: THE ROMANCE. Since A Court of Thorns and Roses was a loose retelling of Beauty and the Beast, my ship of course was none other than Tamlin and Feyre. I loved them as individuals and I loved them even more as a couple. AND I loved Rhysand. Just not as a love interest. I felt like Feyre wasn't worthy of the enigma that was Rhysand. But knowing the trend that SJM follows in all of her books, I figured a change in love interests was inevitable. After all, a book isn't written by Sarah J. Maas if there isn't some character butchering and changes in love interests involved.But after reading A Court of Mist and Fury, I actually found myself accepting the transition in love interests much to my surprise. As much as I wanted Tamlin and Feyre to stay together, I knew it wasn't going to happen. These two people that survived weren't the same people that were Under the Mountain. They're relationship became such a nightmare and so unhealthy. It was two damaged lovers waiting for a disaster to happen.In the beginning of this series, I understood where Tamlin was coming from and why he was so protective of Feyre. It was for Feyre's own good and nobody wants to lose the people they love and/or care about. But he took it way too far. He became too overbearing to the point where he was holding Feyre back. We all understood the trials and suffering that Feyre had to go through but I feel like people don't acknowledge what Tamlin had to go through as well while they were Under the Mountain. It was nothing close to what Feyre had to go through but Tamlin had to watch the person he loved suffer and die. He couldn't protect her the way he wanted and he didn't fight for her as he knew he very well could have. He was helpless and a coward. I think he realized this, which was why he tried to make up for it afterwards by protecting her now to the point where she's being suffocated. It still doesn't excuse what Tamlin does in this book but he's just another damaged character like Feyre and Rhysand. He's just hurting in different ways and expressing that pain in a way the he views would make up for his shortcomings in the first book. Tamlin loves Feyre, that much is evident. He just loves her too much, and that is the tragedy.As for Rhysand, all I can say is that I loved him in ACOTAR and I loved him even more in A Court of Mist and Fury. I loved that we finally get a good understanding of Rhys as a character, the secrets he's kept, and the sacrifices he's made for the good of his people and his court. He was everything that Tamlin was not and twice the man and High Lord that Tamlin will ever be. I'm not completely sure if I'm 100% on board with Feyre and Rhysand yet but I love their chemistry, friendship, and the way they just understand and respect one another. I think I would've been head over heels in love with Feyre and Rhys instantly as a couple if ACOTAR never happened and I didn't get so attached to Feyre and Tamlin. But I no longer ship Tamlin/Feyre and I'm slowly, but surely, beginning to fall in love with Rhysand and Feyre little by little.With romance aside, everything about A Court of Mist and Fury turned out every bit as great as I anticipated a year ago. Sarah J. Maas did not disappoint. I was preparing myself for the worst but instead I got the best. Sarah really knows how to capture her audience with her writing, worldbuilding, and characters that she has created. Of all the new things that were introduced in this book, the new characters of the Night Court were definitely my favorite. I thought the Spring Court was great in ACOTAR with characters like Lucien and Alis but the Night Court was at a whole new level with Cassian, Azriel, Morrigan, and Amren. BADASS is literally an understatement describing these new characters. Besides Rhysand and Feyre, ACOMAF introduced so many new ships and I can't handle all the perfectness that everyone is. I now ship Mor and Azriel with all of my being, just putting it out there. XD And Cassian and Nesta. And Lucian and Elain. None for you Tamlin.Overall, I was glad I waited to read A Court of Mist and Fury because as a result, I was able to dive into the story with an open mind about the changes that were going to be made in terms of romance and the direction that Sarah J. Maas was taking the series. Love her or hate her, Sarah can write one hell of a story and is such an outstanding author. Although there were some parts of the book that went by a little slow, I think A Court of Mist and Fury was even better than ACOTAR in more ways than one. Sometimes I find that sequels may suffer "middle book syndrome" but ACOMAF amplifies that momentum knowing that Sarah is preparing to hurtle anticipation and suffering our way for the conclusion of the A Court of Thorns and Roses trilogy.