Well, well, well. How the turns have tabled. ACOTAR was, uh... not my favorite book in the world. But there are no words to describe how much better ACOMAF is. All the problems I had with the first book were fixed. The story got bigger and more epic. The romance improved dramatically. And I fell in love with all the characters. This review has spoilers for the first book. Spoilers for ACOMAF will be boxed off with siren emojis (🚨).After the events Under the Mountain, Feyre is understandably traumatized. She saved Tamlin and the Spring Court at the cost of her own mental health. She had to kill innocent Fae to save him. And now she can't look at the color red without getting flashbacks. She wakes up every night to throw up. And Tamlin isn't helping. He's extremely protective of her after Amarantha killed her, even though Feyre was brought back stronger than ever as a High Fae. He doesn't allow her to talk to her family or to leave Spring Court land. He goes as far as to lock her in the house so she won't try to help the recovery effort in Prythian.And that's when she breaks. She calls out for anyone to save her, and Rhysand hears her through the bond, taking her to the Night Court to ride out the storm. But along the way, she realizes that she is more than a figurehead. She has powers, given to her by the High Lords when her body was remade. This book is essentially Feyre's journey to finding and accepting herself with Rhysand's help. Rhysand, High Lord of the Night Court, is not as he seems. In ACOTAR, we saw the facade he put on so Amarantha didn't get suspicious. But the real Rhys is a haunted, traumatized character who hates himself and feels worthless. He's exactly like Feyre. An excuse for Rhysand's past behavior is given, and it actually makes sense. Their journey to discovering themselves is beautiful, touching, and heartbreaking. And while I do hate Tamlin for being so heartless to Feyre, I can see where he's coming from and I don't think we should treat him like a villain. He's protective of Feyre because he saw her die, and he's absolutely terrified of that happening again. So he protects her the only way he knows how--by shutting her inside and not letting anyone see her. And it drives Feyre mad. I think there should have been a Tamlin redemption arc, and I really want to see Tamlin recovering from his PTSD as well. Because they're both suffering and they both deserve help. I don't want Tamlin to become the villain. However, the signs of emotional abuse and possible physical abuse are clearly evident. - Claws come out whenever Feyre confronts him- Makes her PTSD worse by locking her inside, giving her flashbacks to Under the Mountain- Doesn't take her opinions seriously - Doesn't listen to her, or kisses her or something to make her shut up- Gives her no responsibilitiesThe mental health rep was outstanding. Tamlin's rep was kind of harmful, but Feyre's was so raw and emotional and real. She didn't recover from her trauma because of love. She recovered because of friendship, and because people actually listened to her and took her seriously. Love was just a side effect. It's really the little things that helped. Feyre comforting Rhys during his nightmares and realizing that they were alike. Mor wearing blue instead of her favorite color (red) when she first meets Feyre. The Court of Dreams giving Feyre time to recover when she has a panic attack.The one thing I think this book needs is more diversity. Everyone was white except for this one guy that showed up for two chapters. The caucacity. 🚨🚨🚨SPOILERS AHEAD🚨🚨🚨I did not like Rhysand's character after Feyre discovered the mating bond. This may have something to do with the fact that I don't like the idea of "mates." They're essentially soulmates, if you're not familiar with SJM. I always felt uncomfortable with the overprotectiveness that comes with the term and the kind of animalistic ring to the word itself. I actually really, really loved Rhys's character before he and Feyre were mates. He was so suave and intelligent and witty. That is, until the mating bond snapped into place. And then he was insanely overprotective and I just don't like that in a character. 🚨🚨🚨SPOILERS HAVE ENDED🚨🚨🚨Another rap, because why not. Mild spoilers for ACOMAF.Feyre Darling (Part 2)Written by yours trulyFeyre was okay, then she got greatRhys saved her on her wedding dateTamlin locked her in and that's not coolHe treats her like a bargaining toolThe Night Court isn't really badTurns out Rhys is very sadHe went through some bad stuff; so did MorMor is a queen that I adoreTamlin's jealousy knows no boundsLucien's acting like a clownThe whole throne scene was very suspiciousNight Court food is extremely deliciousChapter 55 had me wheezingSoup for Feyre is very pleasing What's Feyre painting? No one knowsTamlin's reached an all-time low I wish his mask would be back onI can't stand his face for very longAre Rhys's eyes violet or are they blue?The most powerful High Lord got hit by a shoe___4.5 starsMy review of ACOTARMy review of ACOWAR