LET ME START MY REVIEW BY QUOTING MY PRE-REVIEW, THE ONE THAT I WROTE BEFORE THIS BOOK CAME OUT:Written in September 2015:Now that I've read Queen of Shadows I don't know what to expect from this one. I AM SCARED. I'm totally open to the whole Feyre/Rhys thing, but I love Tamlin so much and I don't want him to be ruined by Sarah J. Maas! Can someone please tell her that she can make us love a character without ruining another character?Because really, I ship Feyre and Tamlin, but I will not be mad if SJM handles Rhys's and Feyre's relationship with cleverness.PLEASE SJM, DON'T RUIN TAMLIN....And of course, WHAT DID SJM DO? RUIN TAMLIN!I tried to write my review without major plot spoilers, but there will be some minor spoilers about how the characters were handled. And warning: my emotions over this book are a mess, you'll se how contrary they are! Anyway... let me begin:OH, I was mad! I was so angry when I started reading this book, because it is in the first chapter that you notice that Tamlin has changed and not for good. Now he's an asshole. He's insensitive and controlling, I couldn't stand him! So congrats, SJM, you made me despise my (now former) favorite character in this series.I read a few reviews that said that Tamlin was always like that (a possessive piece of shit), but NO. HE WASN'T! He was caring and protective, not a control freak. I feel that Tamlin changed because of everything that happened with Amarantha. Everyone comments on how Feyre had PTSD and Tamlin didn't try to understand her, but I think Tamlin also had PTSD. What he went through with Amarantha (and with almost losing Feyre) had a huge toll in him. I can accept that he changed because of that, but no one acknowledges it, not the readers, not Feyre, not even SJM. So that must mean that he just changed because he's an asshole (I'm not buying it).My problem is that SJM wanted to force Rhysand on us, like she wanted to force Rowan on us in her Throne of Glass series. Excuse me, miss, but I don't need the love interest to be pushed on me. I can decide by myself. And the thing is... I FELL IN LOVE WITH RHYS IN THIS BOOK! And I think I would've fallen for him even if Tamlin hadn't been the piece of shit he was.Before this book, I couldn't imagine any possible reason that would make Feyre leave Tamlin and fall for Rhys. Not after everything she went through to save Tam, he was the love of her life and her feelings for him were genuine. But then of course, the author put a lot of effort in ruining Tamlin, just so Feyre could fall out of love. What SJM doesn't seem to understand is that falling out of love is normal. It's perfectly fine. You don't have to turn a character into a bad guy for that to happen. Sarah turned Tam into a villain, and that was not necessary.I also hated the comparisons Feyre was always making between Rhys and Tam, so frustrating! They were so obviously put there only to make sure that the reader understood that Tamlin was evil and Rhysand was good:- "Ugh, Tamlin doesn't let me go anywhere. But Rhys lets me do anything I want!"- "Ugh, I had my nightmares and Tamlin never woke up to confort me. But Rhys is always there for me when that happens!"- "Ugh, Tamlin only cares about hierarchy. But Rhys cares about family and about his people!"- "Ugh, Tamlin doesn't let me enter to his room. But of course Rhys invites me to his!" ...I MEAN, SERIOUSLY? We can notice that by ourselves, but Feyre kept comparing and comparing during the whole book.Have you read the Shatter Me series? It was as if Feyre was Juliette, Tamlin was Adam and Rhysand was Warner... the very same pattern! First Tamlin was a cinnamon roll and suddenly he becomes a bad guy who only thinks about himself and is obsessed with Feyre. And Rhys was the evil guy in the first book but then you discover that he had really good reasons to do everything he did, and he's a good guy incapable of commiting any evil. Gosh, I really liked Tamlin, but now I simply can't stand him. SJM succeeded!And I had other issues with this book... but that was my main one. I'm afraid this has become the modus-operandi of SJM.Let me talk about those other issues... starting with Rhys. His character really intrigued me in the first installment of this series, he seemed evil, and I knew there was more in him than what he let us see. I knew he had his reasons to act the way he did, and of course I wanted to know why. BUT THIS WAS JUST RIDICULOUS. He's not just not evil, he is too good, bordering in perfection. He's a saint, he's "Saint Rhys". There is too much goodness in him. He's also the "most powerful Fae ever born", see? It's unnatural to be that perfect.Another issue was that Rhys seems to be the only High Lord that cares about peace and prosperity. He's literally the only one trying to stop the King. The other High Lords don't care about humans! The other High Lords are stupid! I feel like SJM did this just to add more perfection to Rhysand's character: Obviously he's the only considerate Fae that cares about the poor humans, the other High Lords are nothing compared to him!Now let's go to the other side of my review (this will be drastic): Despite eveything, I LOVE RHYS SO MUCH! UGH, SARAH! You did it, you made me fall in love with him! Maybe it's his good nature. Maybe it's his perfection. Maybe it's because he reminds me of Warner. I don't care anymore... I'm just really rooting for him. I don't know how Sarah does it. Even with everything that bothers me about his character, I couldn't help falling for him.And it is rare when I change my ship in a series, but I did in this one because there's no way I'd still ship Feyre and Tamlin after everything that happened in this book (which is sad, because I really shipped them in the first book). Now I can only say that I ship Feyre and Rhys SO. MUCH. Their relationship development was beautiful, everything they went through made their love more real, made it stronger. There is no love triangle here, there are no teams, there are simply Feyre and Rhys and I NEED them to be together. There were only two things I didn't like about their relationship. 1) The whole: I DREAMT ABOUT YOU BEFORE I MET YOU.  ...Cliché, cliché, cliché. 2) The "YOU ARE MINE" parts. I mean, Feyre left Tamlin because he was possesive and controlling, but all those "you are mine" are not exactly different, right? I don't like that kind of love. It should not be about belonging to someone, it should be about belonging together.I also love Cassian and Azriel. Everything that happened at the end with them made me a sobbing mess! I just hope Cassian recovers his poor wings!, because if not, I'll just go to a corner and cry forever. Now let's talk about Feyre. Sometimes she infuriated me because of all the comparisons she made and because she was always complaining about Tamlin not trying to understand her, but she didn't really try to understand him, either. Sometimes she was really unfair with him Except when he locked her up, I would've done the same thing Feyre did. AND NO, I don't want them back together (NEVER), it's just that she made me really mad sometimes. But in contrast, I think she really grew as a character in this book, she blew me away! The scene with the water wolves was AMAZING. Also I cried when the evil creatures attacked Velaris! Ugh, stupid queens!!! ...I couldn't stand it, it was painful to read. But back to Feyre, I like the directon her character is going.I can't wait to read the next installment! I know Tamlin doesn't have a chance of forgiveness (I myself can't ever forgive him), but I'd like to see redemption in Lucien, he's a character with great potential and in this book he was just too weak. The world building was great, a total A+! I'm still a little confused about the whole Jurian ordeal, but I hope he gets killed soon :). All in all, this book was GREAT, I think that maybe it was better than the first one, and that's saying a lot, because I loved ACOTAR. But since I had way too much issues with it, I could not give it 5 stars. I don't know how Sarah does it... she makes me love her and hate her in every book she writes! But it's more love than hate, I am SJM trash. She's QUEEN.