That’s the problem with Ketterdam, Jesper thought as they stumbled uncertainly through the dark. Trusting the wrong person can get you killed.
What's that down there on the ground, you say? Oh, it's just my heart after Bardugo callously ripped it out *sob*Seriously, this book was such a crazy ride. The jump in quality from the Grisha trilogy to Six of Crows and Crooked Kingdom is just astounding. These books have Bardugo's compelling style all over them, and yet they are so much more complex, rich, and well-written. As a person who doesn't love multiple perspectives, especially more than two, I'm amazed at how the author manages to juggle so many diverse characters and make me care about them all.Crooked Kingdom is a beast of a book - my hardcover would make a nice murder weapon - and yet the action and tension never run dry. It's a cliche to compare a book to a rollercoaster but that's exactly what this felt like - highs and lows of emotions, equal parts humorous, sexy, entertaining, dark, violent, romantic and gritty.The stakes just keep getting bigger. This book opens where we left off with Wylan wearing Kuwei Yul-Bo's face, and our gang must rescue Inej, get revenge, and defeat the bad guys. But that doesn't even begin to sum up all the action, adventure and craziness going on here. And as well as being dark and compelling, the characters and relationships we love become even more fascinating and developed. There are a grand total of THREE ships here and I truly adore them all.I actually wasn't really feeling the Kaz/Inej chemistry in the first book, but it just came crashing down in a wave of feels here:
“He was going to break my legs ,” she said, her chin held high, the barest quaver in her voice. “Would you have come for me then, Kaz? When I couldn’t scale a wall or walk a tightrope? When I wasn’t the Wraith anymore?”Dirtyhands would not. The boy who could get them through this, get their money, keep them alive, would do her the courtesy of putting her out of her misery, then cut his losses and move on.“I would come for you,” he said, and when he saw the wary look she shot him, he said it again. “I would come for you. And if I couldn’t walk, I’d crawl to you, and no matter how broken we were, we’d fight our way out together—knives drawn, pistols blazing. Because that’s what we do. We never stop fighting.”
*shivers*In the end, though, Leigh Bardugo is EVIL. Don't forget it. There are so many satisfying things in this book - like watching Kaz Brekker just be fucking awesome, like all the twists and turns, like the wonderful gay romance - but it also hits you in the heart. And it hits hard.The ending was just epic perfection. It was the kind of ending a story like this deserves - the kind that leaves you wanting more, but knowing that it finished in exactly the right place.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store