I loved it, and I can only explain that being really, really personal about it. When I was 10, I was in a theater company. At the time, I though acting was what I wanted from life and art and I loved it deeply. The only other things I did on my spare time were drawing, reading and running around with cats*. So, when our company's director said he was writing a script based on some stories from The Thousand and One Nights, stories I didn't know and all adults in the company though I should, I went looking for a book. I found an omnibus edition. It was, of course, a mighty big book, the biggest I had ever seen. The only way I convinced my mother to buy that juggernaut was promising I would read it all. So I did. It took me about two months. I would carry the book everywhere I went and read whenever possible**. I still have it, old and dog eared as it is. It is, after all, the book that taught me two of the most important lessons in my life:- That I can read anywhere, and reading will always keep me safe.- And that having and imagination and making up stories will save your life, if you let it.The thing is, until I read The Thousand and One Nights, I wasn't aware that I, as a girl that made up stories, could someday become a writer. Reading Throne of The Crescent moon I suddenly found myself revisiting a place inside that I haven't though about in a while. The descriptions took me back to those sumptuous palaces and deserts that first gave me the will to write. Of course Saladin Ahmed's book has its own merits. The characters are human and interesting, specially the women and the city (oh, yeah, that city is a character). The story is a solid adventure with a slight moral basis, mostly due to the character's religion, which doesn't means our heroes are purely good (the thing I loved the most about Adoulla was his terrible temper, after all). It is a story with heart, a story that loves. And, in my very personal case, a story that reminds me I can write. And for that, I thank him.Thank you Saladin Ahmed. I had a dark time this year, but now it's gone. Your book dispelled it.* I haven't changed much, really. ** A habit I've kept since then. I actually read while walking.