This book managed to say so much and yet so little. The conversations and the descriptions rambled on and on and on. Everyone was evasive. Kaylin’s friends and team members withheld vital information from her. With friends like those who needs enemies. The worst part was people didn’t even try to be sly about keeping info from her; they’d flat out tell her they wouldn’t reveal anything. It took so long to get to the point that by the time something would finally be explained, I no longer cared. Some things like Kaylin’s bad grades were mentioned repeatedly. Aside from that being annoying as hell, everyone else’s astonishment at her lack of education made her look stupid and ridiculous. Her tardiness was constantly mentioned also. At first I questioned how someone adverse to learning pertinent information and inept at following rules could be so well liked and tolerated. It’s quite easy to explain how that happened: Kaylin is a special snowflake. There weren’t any serious consequences for anything she did. Everybody was drawn to her, and I don’t think she was deserving of her fan base. Of course she had crazy magical powers, which apparently that alone made her worthy of respect. Lord Nightshade was the only remotely interesting character, and he didn’t even get much page time. I’d like to know more about him, but it’s not enough to make me want to read the rest of this series. Severn was too possessive, secretive and boring. I have mixed feelings about his actions in the past although it is understandable as to why he did what he did. None of the other characters were memorable, and they lacked personality.The world building sucked. I was really confused for the first half of the book. Kaylin was a hawk, but what does that really mean? Hawks were explained in the general sense but the specifics were lacking. What do they do? How were they different from the wolves or swords? What does it take to become a hawk? Wolves were briefly touched on but swords were only mentioned. Why were the swords even mentioned since they had no bearing on the story whatsoever? The way the different groups and species coexisted was vaguely explained. After reading the whole book I still don’t get what distinguishes one species from the next. This book did have potential. The idea was good but poorly executed. IDK why I finished it. Every time I put it down I didn’t want to pick it back up again. I did things I don’t like such as cleaning or watching baseball games because it was vastly better than continuing to read this book. It was way too long for the minor amount of info gleaned from its 500+ pages. I did a lot of skimming. And I forgot to mention that there is a love triangle. It’s just one more thing to make this book unbearable.