This is the way to get people hooked to a series from the very beginning! Incredible and complex world + strong but relatable main character = great series. Add humour, lively banter and myriad of interesting support characters to spice up things and you get the first instalment of the Chronicle of Elantra. This isn't your typical fantasy world. I'm not sure how to classify this: it has some elements of urban fantasy but at the same time it's too close to epic fantasy. Forget the usual suspects like werewolves, vampires and fairies. You won't meet them in Elantra. The only somewhat familiar race here (apart from the humans but we're everywhere so it doesn't count!) is the Dragon race. But even the Dragons are not your typical fire breathing giant lizards! I want to learn more about them! So few details about their culture and powers are mentioned in this book! Same goes for all the races in fact. Mainly because Kaylin, the MC, is the worst student ever and failed all the classes that deal with magic and cultures in school. Damn, how I want to get my hands on her textbooks or whatever passes for textbooks in the Empire! Kaylin is one badass chick! Even if I can't wrap my head around her total disinterest in leaning more about her fellow citizens, I find her extremely likeable. That added to her inability to be on time even if her life deepened on it should have made me hate her but she's so awesome that it didn't bother me at all! I just loved her and all that potential that is just hinted at! But she's not alone in this strange world. By her side are some pretty awesome characters. Like the Leontine Sergeant affectionately nicknamed Iron Jaw. Or the Hawklord. They might criticise Kaylin all the time but you can feel the affection they have for her. They felt like paternal figures most of the time even when they were trying to be stern and distant. And Kaylin's new partners - Severn and Tiamaris. Even when she was acting out and doing her best to alienate them they stuck by her all the way to the big finale. But most importantly all of those characters supported her and believed in her. Especially considering how much older than her and more knowledgeable they are they still believed she'll do the right thing. That endeared them to me more than everything else put together. I just can't wait to get back on the streets of Elantra and learn more about this fascinating new world!