3 ½ stars. Rule of Wolves, the sequel to King of Scars and the latest in the Grishaverse, is… all over the place. Containing both some boring elements and some fantastically compelling ones, I honestly didn’t love the first half. But after spending about half of this complaining, the last hundred pages had me on the FLOOR and also fixed at least 60% of my problems with it. The plot is a bit scattered between different arenas. As the book begins: ▷Queen Makhi of Shu Han attempts to protect neice Akini, while her sister princess Ehri is alive and missing. Last book, Makhi had her assassin, Mayu, try to assassinate Nikolai, in revenge for Fjerda’s killing of her sister. Meanwhile, Nikolai and Zoya must also deal with Shu Han’s KerGud program, which fuses things to the bones of Grisha and corrupts their humanity. ▷The Darkling, resurrected last year by Elizaveta, is still trapped by Nikolai and Zoya. They hope he can stop the Blight, the real enemy of the novel. ▷Nina is trying to make fake miracles at the ice court under Brum’s eyes while spending time with his heir, Hanne. Meanwhile, she’s going full Rasputin in trying to manipulate Prince Rasmus of Fjerda and his mother, the two of whom are currently protecting Demidov, pretender to the throne of Ravka. Several plot threads exist here, and I find two of three of them hugely compelling. The King of Scars duology focuses on the general beginnings of people believing in saints, falling into some interesting cultural trend storywriting. The focus on international politics is really compelling to me. In Shadow and Bone, there’s a tendency to focus on implication rather than genuine politic. The highlights of the novel tend to fall in its political machinations and power plays — [Spoiler] Nikolai’s little girlboss move of manipulating Makhi into coming to David and Genya’s wedding while Ehri returns to Shu Han is fantastic.While some wonderful work is done with the side characters especially towards the second half — [spoiler] I particularly adored Mayu, the assassin, and her dynamic with her brother, and enjoyed her teamup with Tamar and Ehri — something was often missing to me. Half these characters are just… interior monologues, and not as much interaction as I’ve come to crave from Bardugo’s writing. The main enemy of much of the novel is an existential threat, a blight, rather than an actual character. This left me craving more with side characters such as Adric and Leoni and less with the Darkling. I couldn’t shake the feeling through much of this book, actually, that I was reading the coattails of a past book. What worked so well about King of Scars was that, though of course we’re working with characters from past books, the development of Nikolai and Zoya felt new. They’d never had points of view, and thus could continue to grow and change. Yet some of this book felt like doubling back to the first series in a bad way. While I genuinely like what’s done with The Darkling here — [spoiler] that he redeems some of his mistakes, yet characters such as Genya never receive apologies or forgive him, is nuanced in a way I enjoy — I still think the Darkling being back is a lazy storyline. A new plot was needed. And [spoiler]killing off a major secondary character from the first series felt, to me, borderline emotionally manipulative. Like much of the book, it’s riding the coattails of how beloved a character already was, rather than building something new.But even with all of that, several points redeemed the novel for me. Zoya and Nikolai as characters are deeply compelling. Zoya and Nikolai each suffer from a syndrome I would like to refer to as “the irredeemable monster complex” — when a character is utterly convinced they are an irredeemable monster, and they are ready to keep that locked inside them for the rest of their lives. Zoya’s arc is a particular standout; her [spoilers] I can love you and let you go moment around pg.490s is one of the highlights of the novel. And Zoya and Nina’s relationship, which appears as a throughline, is so important to me. Perhaps more importantly, the ending is absolutely pitch-perfect. The ties between the Nina arc and the Zoya/Nikolai arc is unexpected, but perfect. The conclusion to Zoya and Nikolai’s arcs together is utterly perfect to me, something I would not have considered but absolutely love as an ending. And I enjoy the ending to Nina and Hanne’s arc quite a bit as well; it’s bittersweet, but deeply compelling. Also, [spoiler] Matthias having been killed by Joran made me utterly crazy. Overall, while this novel wasn't perfect, it left me with a good taste in my mouth that I don't think I see clearing anytime soon. I'm so glad to have gotten to spend more time with this world. Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | About |