4.5 stars“War was like fire—sudden, hungry, and easiest to stop before it took hold. He would do all he could to contain the blaze. He feared for his country and for himself. He’d be a fool not to. But some part of him, maybe the privateer, maybe the demon, maybe the prince who had clawed his way to the throne, was itching for a fight.”Rule of Wolves is everything King of Scars should have been. I complained in my review of KoS that it felt meandering and lacked a coherent plot beyond a fanservice Nikolai book. RoW is much more tightly plotted with bundles of action. Something happens in every single chapter that moves the overarching plot along. Mal and Alina show up, though I honestly don't give much of a fuck about them. (The Netflix adaption made me like Mal, though I maintain his book counterpart is insufferable) What I cared about were the Crows and thank the Saints, I got my wish. I'm not going to lie—it's very deliberate fanservice the way Kaz, Jesper, Wylan, and Inej make appearances. But I just wanted my Dirtyhands content, so Cynical Natalie can shut the eff up. Inej almost got to meet the Sun Saint, her idol, asdyfgbbvhb. The ending of the novel also sets up a very clean opening for SoC #3 despite Bardugo saying she's going to take a break from the Grishaverse for a while. At ease, my loves, we will most definitely get more Brekker content.Freddy Carter as Kaz is so perfectly cast, by the way. The whole cast is. I love Nina’s character arc, how she heals from grief but not completely erasing Matthias from her memory. Love that strong leaves a mark and though it no longer hurts, Nina will always miss him. The advent of new love is done so well, so lovingly for lack of a beetter word. Hanne and Nina are an amazing pair, and I especially like how Hanne becomes a man at the end, demonstrating the transgender possibilities of Tailoring.Zoya’s journey is wonderful, too. In many ways, she’s the true star of this duology, not Nikolai. We knew her as the classic mean girl in Shadow and Bone, a grudging ally to Alina in Ruin and Rising, and now a general who has seen too much war and has hardened her heart against emotion as a result. She’s bracing like a strong drink, as Nikolai says. It’s amazing watching her character develop from its one-dimensional stages to this nuanced woman who is both fierce and tender-hearted, brave and afraid, desiring Nikolai and yet too scared to come closer. The whole dragon queen thing at the end gave me serious Game of Thrones vibes, but it’s hardly fair to let one fantasy series claim ownership over dragons, which are one of the oldest fantasy tropes in existence. Don’t worry, Nikolai isn’t completely left out. Outshone as he is by the two leading ladies, he still finds opportunities to do the improbable and protect Ravka while cracking jokes. God, I love him.I gotta say though, how dumb are Zoya and Nikolai for going along with what the Darkling wanted (i.e. meeting Alina)? I guess they were desperate, but c'mon. You know he's a master manipulator. The Darkling gets a few chapters as well. His ending is fitting, I guess. Eternal torture in exchange for being remembered. He’s always wanted to be Ravka’s savior after all and this way, he gets to atone for his crime. But he’s likely going to be set free in SoC #3, dammit. All in all, a fulfilling (temporary) end to the Grishaverse. My review of King of Scars