Sooo... I survived CoHF. And the ride was amazing.I don't know what to feel! I can't believe it's over! But one thing I love about the Shadowhunter chronicles is that we'll be getting more and more every year! And I loved the way Cassie introduced the characters of TDA in this book, I'm already in love with them! Julian is so so so sweet, and I loved Emma! And Tavvy and Dru and Livvy and Ty! Even Mark, oh, Mark :'(. I just want the Blackthorns to be happy! BUT WELL, I'll have TDA to know them better and to fall more in love with them.Hmmm... and I don't know what else to say, I can't write an accurate review of this book without spoiling it. For this non spoilery part, I'll say that it was simply beautiful and that it made me squeal, scream, cry, laugh out loud, it was full of so many FEELS. I really loved it and it was an excellent way to finish this series <3. I'm glad Cassie decided to write 3 more books after City of Glass, because every single one of her characters grew a lot in them! SO... five big stars for this book! I just want to say: I still think Clockwork Princess is the best book Cassie has ever written, CoHF is close, but it didn't top CP2 for me. I'll make a video discussing the book soon, I have to!!! There is so much to talk about and to shout about, hahaha. BUT NOW... BEWARE FOR THE SPOILERS.SPOILERS STARTING RIGHT NOW.........So, I think Cassie is a BIG TROLL. She is a TEASE! She scared the hell out of us and in the end nobody died! Or at least, no main character died! I was so SCARED while reading the book, fearing for the life of my precious characters and I was in TEARS when I thought Magnus was going to die in Edom!!! It made so much sense and I was hysteric! Magnus is my favorite character and I was like: NO CLARE, DON'T YOU DARE!!! I literally fell out of my bed and I was crying in the floor when he said goodbye to Alec. UGH, CASSIE, YOU ARE SUCH A TEASE! SO EVIL! Playing with my feelings like that :(. Not that I hate Cassie for that, I LOVE HER, and I also loved this part of the book, but I was trully scared! I didn't want Magnus to die! EHEM, then Simon stepped up and I felt a little relieved with the deal Asmodeus made with him! YES, I was SAD for him and for Clary and for Izzy, but it was the best we could get! I mean, I didn't ever pictured Simon as an immortal vampire, he didn't want to live forever, so I think that this was the perfect way to fix that and to give him the mortal life he deserved <3. I am happy with the way Cassie fixed that! It was heart wrenching, YES, but necessary! And Simon saved everyone and I love him for that.AND WOW WOW WOW, maybe he'll be a Shadowhunter! How amazing is that!? My grin didn't fit in my face when I read that part!So, for the characters that DID die, I feel really sad about Raphael :(. I really liked that vamp. Jordan also made me tear a little, but I wasn't really fond of him, so I'm okay with him gone. BUT BUT BUT the one who made me most sad was Sebastian's death :(. I know he deserved it and the part of the Judas Kiss was amazing, I was like: YES. YES. YES!!!! BUT THEN it was so sad seeing the real Jonathan dying in Jocelyn's arms and he was SO ashamed of himself and UGH, I couldn't stand it :(! At the end when he told them to destroy the infernal cup and everything he said to Clary... oh, Jonathan :(.UGH NO, I really have so much more to say! About Tessa and about JEM! OMG! We got Jem back and all my feels exploded! ALSO ABOUT JACE CHOOSING TO BE A HERONDALE! YES! YES! I COULDN'T BE HAPPIER! And Malec, oh, MALEC, I can't believe they ended up together and better than before <3. I was really scared for them in this book, but at the end they made it! And I'm proud of both of them, and so so so happy for them <3.BUT YES, I'll say everything in my video discussion, so I'll shut up for now.I LOVED THIS BOOK!