The fascinating world of shadowhunters and downworlders has always intrigued me with it's rich world-building. The characters, so true and relatable, including those few twisted ones, have all contributed to making this one of my favorite book series of all time. Add in some adventure, romance, and humor, and you've got a recipe for success.The last installment of the Mortal Instruments was nothing short of unforgettable. There were so many things I loved with it, but also things I regretted Cassie didn't explore futher. I guess with a book series as large as this one it would be hard, if not impossible, to address everything. All in all, City of Heavenly Fire was deeply affecting, a real page-turner with both heartbreaking and truly happy moments. Few books have managed to touch me this way; last time was Clockwork Princess, and I swear, it took me months to even consider picking up a new book to read. Months. That's how emotional it got me.There is a war in this book. The end-of-the-world type of war, and however cliché that may sound, let me assure you, it is not. Maybe, just maybe, I'm too invested in this series, but I found the build up to be realistic. The war will bring destruction, but it will also pave the way to a hopefully brighter future (if you consider the fey to be a smaller threat than Sebastian). It will shape the lives of the survivors, and lead to the ascension of new warriors.Am I the only one who at "We have lost so many. It has been a long time since death undid so many Nephilim. We must reach out into the mundane world, find those who might Ascend, teach and train them" almost yelled out "TAKE ME! TAKE ME!"I guess it all just felt so real... like I was there. Damn it.Essentially, The Mortal Instruments is a story about bravery and sacrifice and friendship, and encircling all of these, is love and compassion. It's about how caring about others and about the world we live in can only make it better. That's what I'm taking away from this story.That and overly exaggerated expectations of how my next boyfriend should be like. If you're not anywhere close to as awesome as Jace Herondale is, I'm done with you. . . I just might up never getting married, but that's OK....A slight input on the topic of Herondales, is it just me who got this big lump in my throat whenever there were any mentions of them, and references to Will in particular? I just have such a soft spot for all things Herondale. Jem's love for, and determination to save the last of the Herondale family, undid me. If the chance comes before me to save the last of the Herondale bloodline, I consider that of higher importance than the fealty I render the Clave.This is why I wish there was more interaction between Jace and Jem, more Tessa and Jace, more explaining. I guess I do understand their decision to "wait". It makes sense from their point of view, just not from mine, ha!And I absolutely loved it when Jem said:"No other family does so much for love, or feels so much guilt over it. Don't carry the weight of the world on you, Jace. It's too heavy for even a Herondale to bear."I will miss Clary, Jace, and the rest of the gang (really, miss is putting it lightly, I will probably agonize over the loss of them). And I hope to maybe see some cameos of them in the Dark Artifices. Maybe Cassie will even consider writing a short story of Tessa and Jace's talk about the Herondale family? One can only hope!***PRE-REVIEW (Aug, 2010)If City of Heavenly Fire is to be published year 2013, it evidently means that there will be no end of the world year 2012! This is GOOD news!*UPDATE* 25/11-2012We WILL survive! Ms. Clare wouldn't do this to us if she wasn't ABSOLUTELY sure the world isn't ending in less than a month... *me looks nervously at the calendar* *UPDATE* 23/12-2012Told ya :P