A confession: Owing to my toxic obsession with Harry Potter I never read this when I was in my early youth, like I was supposed to. The logic of that stubborn decision was complex, and was, I believe, probably born from a fear that they might in fact be “better” than Harry Potter (a thought too horrible to comprehend!—No doubt Dumbledore would have a witty one-liner that would whimsically sum me up). However, more recently, I thought that now there’s a nice-looking big-budget TV series with a banging soundtrack to feast my eyes and ears upon, it might just be time to shelve my pride, accept help from Cedric, take my golden egg to the prefects’ bathroom, and see what His Dark Materials is all about. (Silly referential metaphors aside, I do actually read in the bath a lot, I just love a bit of bubble bath and a glass of wine of an evening—we all have our vices.) Overall, I really enjoyed leisurely making my way through these volumes over the course of a few months. Pullman has created a wonderful and unique fantasy (possibly more sci-fi than fantasy) world. He is an especially gifted writer and his imagery glitters off the page in a way that I don’t think J.K. Rowling would be quite capable of replicating. From a writerly point of view, I thought the last few pages of The Northern Lights were particularly breath-taking to behold, and that was the point at which I became fully invested in this series. Beyond nostalgia, there’s a lot to enjoy in these books as an adult. Post-physics-degree-me loved the clever welding together of quantum physics, astronomy, and Christianity. This gave the story an epic feel of combined mythical, biblical, and high sci-fi proportions. If we’re talking favourites, I admit I still think Rowling delves into emotional trauma in a way which I find more affecting whereas Pullman doesn’t seem very interested in that aspect of his writing. After all, it’s not until about halfway through The Subtle Knife before Roger’s name is really even mentioned; that seemed like an odd evasion of the emotional meat of the story, to me. Anyway, ultimately, I don’t really agree with the professional critics who believe HDM to be vastly superior to Harry Potter. Both series are brilliant things for children and adults to read alike, but my heart will always veer towards Hogwarts and I think it’s justified in doing so. I own each of these three volumes as separate books. However, I think this is a series which, like The Lord of the Rings, is best understood as a single large novel. I don’t think any of its composite parts would work as stand-alones, and its quality is broadly similar throughout. Its dramatic structure forms a single satisfying arc, and reaching the end of The Amber Spyglass, I felt as though I’d been on a long single adventure rather than three separate ones. If pushed, I’d probably say that The Northern Lights is the most iconic and flawless of the three phases, whereas The Amber Spyglass slightly drags in its first half. But whatever, all three books are of a piece, and they’re all very good.FYI, not rating this in separate instalments is going to cost my reading challenge ambitions dearly. #JustSaying.