“When a man you know to be of sound mind tells you his recently deceased mother has just tried to climb in his bedroom window and eat him, you only have two basic options. You can smell his breath, take his pulse and check his pupils to see if he's ingested anything nasty, or you can believe him.” You need to admit that as far as epic opening sentences go, this one scores pretty high. It promises you a rich world, a solid narrator with just the right touch of dry sarcasm, and a constant action. Steel Remains will give you all of this, interspersed with pockets of darkness, sometimes grimly disturbing, other times, pityingly convenient. Those who like Joe Abercrombie should be very satisfied. The story features three main protagonists: two males and one female, also two homosexual characters and one promiscuous lecher. They are war heroes, and like all the war heroes, they are scarred, jaded and bitter. For all of them the days of fighting for the cause of justice, truth and light are done; they scavenge the remnants of their old lives, each in a very peculiar way. Egar of the Majak tribe, also called the Dragonbane to underline the chief achievement of his life, comes back to his clan but never really returns which makes him a poor clanmaster. He is one lazy slob unfit for being a leader, mainly lost in his own memories of what was, drinking, and carnal pleasures with milkmaids young enough to be his daughters I really couldn’t fault his brothers for wanting to get rid of him. Archeth Indamaninarmal aka. Archidi, half-Kiriath half-human, left behind left by the mysterious humanoid race, serves as an advisor to a young Emperor and shields herself against the world with amused detachment, perhaps enhanced by her frequent drug abuse. And finally, Ringil Angeleyes or Ringil of Eskiath, who lives now an obscure life of a municipal exterminator in a border-town settlement. Ringil is the main focal point of the unfolding story. He also is a pretentious cock either striking a pose or throwing a self-pity party every other page.The story kicks off when Ringil’s mother arrives and talks him into finding a missing cousin despite the fact that Gil deliberately cut ties with the family (daddy issues). The whole estrangement felt phoney. Ringil narrates that „He was going back to what he used to be, and the worst of all was that he couldn’t make himself regret it at all.” OK., he had a falling-out with his father, but the drama factor must have been rather low if all it took to bring him back was one (ONE) visit from his Mommy. And let us be honest, she didn’t have to beg/bribe him too much. All that was required from her was to withstand an emotional tantrum, which when spent, led to a prompt “let’s go”. I had a feeling that Ringil had stayed away from home that long only because nobody came earlier and asked him to “please be back on the family bosom”. How very mature—not. In addition to the fact that it was very difficult for me to form an emotional or intellectual bond with the main protagonists (Archidi was closest to hitting the mark), the flow of the story posed another obstacle. Don’t get me wrong, the prose is decent, occasionally bordering on the extraordinary beautiful description of the main enemy, lyrical yet terrifying, but the way it is told, or rather thrown at the reader, feels like somebody drenched you with a bucket of waste.  There are authors who can build a dense and layered universes (Pierce Brown), worlds (Martha Wells) or even single cities (Scott Lynch, Robert Jackson Bennett) and immerse the reader into the reality they have created without info dumps and yet with firm guidance. Here you are dumped into the depth but without the information and you are forced to wade through weird names, words and events: Alrdain, Kiriath, dwenda, krinzanz, Helmsmen, An-Monal, but without guidance in a hope that eventually, you will figure everything out. At the beginning, there are far too many enigmas to appreciate all the intricacies, and when you painstakingly manage to put all the pieces of the puzzle together in the final bits of the book, what is revealed, is a rather standard fantasy-scape, nothing very path-breaking (even if there is an attempt to bridge fantasy and sci-fi, not very thought through if I were to be honest). There is also a motif of hardline religion and puritan concern for public morals (which doesn’t make sense, especially in the free cities) pitched against the sexual preferences of our heroes. But the theme of religious zealots campaigning against homosexuality has been trendy for some time now, and in Steel Remains, it follows a simplistic design unable to flesh out anything new or substantially profound.The book is generously laced with all things dark, and the prose is layered, except for the dialogues. Dialogues read like school break chats. Ringil’s voice especially, as if the author equates grimdark with vulgar and petulant teenager. You will get a lot of vulgarity and generous dosages of ‘faggots’ and ‘cunts’ and other obscenities. There were violent sex scenes, and very sexual fighting sequences (with Ringil stroking the hilt of his sword like a prick, I kid you not), also flashbacks, but I largely skimmed all of the above. You should be perhaps aware of the fact that there is a brutal m/m rape scene at the military academy. Ringil recounts it oozing with bitterness that his older brother didn’t save him from the rite. Simultaneously, he is unable to reflect that there was nobody to save the very same older brother, who also had to go through this “initiation” or wonder what kind of scars it left his sibling with. That I found pathetic to the core.There were however some fun moments (my favourite at the barricade leading to the slaving quarter), good fighting sequences, and a genius vision of how everything ends with no one remembering or caring or understanding and with the sword secured away behind a glass in a museum case (even if it peeves me that they should know a word “museum” in a civilisation clearly foreign to such concept). These occasional lapses into the beyond average did not stop the author to have his heroes miraculously saved by an unknown yet friendly higher power, miraculously bumping on each other in the heat of twisting plot or miraculously discovering or doing other things needed to propel the plot onward. Overall, good writing and a decent plot merit a three-star rating. Even though upon finishing the novel I had a very unpleasant feeling I had dabbed with something smelly and not really healthy.Also in the series: 2. The Cold Commands3. The Dark Defiles