I kept putting off writing this review, because how do you review a book that doesn't take your culture seriously? :/The Wolf and the Woodsman is marketed as "inspired by Hungarian history", so I feel like once you mention some famous historical figures, you should expect readers to place this story in that historical context. And so, even though the succession of kings in the book is incorrect, this book tells you that the first king was Szent István, aka St Stephen (and also mentions Géza, but he's less known). He is considered the first Hungarian king, and it's easy to remember because he was crowned in 1000. Now, the current king in the book is only the 5th one, so if you google the kings quickly, it's easy to deduce that this story is placed around late 1000s, maybe mid 1100s. So 11th-12th century.The reason why I insist on the importance of placing this in a historical context is because of the amount of historical inaccuracies. I'm not even a history buff, and I noticed so many inaccuracies... starting with the currency, the forint, which is present but which was only introduced in the early 14th century. Then you have the very anachronistic goddamn PAPRIKA mentioned, which 1) comes from Latin America so has absolutely nothing to do in 11th century and 2) only became popular in Hungarian cuisine in 18th century. Moreover, the fact that people judge the main character, Évike, a peasant girl for not being able to read? I'm sorry, but since when is reading/writing an everyday skill in medieval Hungary???There's also the manifold linguistic issues... starting with the random Hungarian peppered throughout the text. While this was no issue for me, I think it can be very confusing for non-speakers. Even more so because only some names are in Hungarian (like Ezer Szem forest), but not others (Black lake... which ironically would also be an easy name but whatever). Perhaps even more annoying is the linguistic-geographic relationships in this text. The book uses code names, like Merzani for Turkish and Juuvi for Finnish. And so medieval Hungary is somehow bordered by Turkey on the South and Finland in the North??? Not only that, but the main character understands both languages? How? I would like that superpower please! Like yes, Hungarian is a Finno-ugric language, but 1) I do not understand Finnish AT ALL. A friend who studied it says the grammar has some similarities and basta. and 2) Turkish again, I would not be able to understand at all. If you google it, you will find out that there are only about 400-500 Turkish words/word roots left in Hungarian. So how? And even if you might counter "but this is old Hungarian!", I still doubt they could understand those languages then. The oldest text in Hungarian is from 12th century (only Latin beforehand) and I understand about 70% it!Inaccuracies like this are to be found even regarding the story... we know it's placed around St. Stephen day (20th August), and yet they're freezing in the nights? Hungary has a temperate weather, so I think they were fine during the hottest month of the summer. There's also the matter of spelling mistakes in the Hungarian, which tells you that no Hungarian had read this text before publication... because yes, I can forgive Király Szek being spelled like that once, but it shows up repeatedly in the book. Szek means nothing, while Szék means chair, or in this context, the King's Throne. And I know it looks just like an accent, but it's different from French, it's a different sound and letter. This was not the only mistake, but it's the most prominent one.And while one might set aside all these issues, there's also the plot and characters and all I can say is ... no. There are so many useless side quests, the middle part of the book really drags on. What was the point of their first travel to the north? Or the clay witch and the other forest being? Absolutely nothing. And the gore... yikes.I initially wanted to give this 2 stars, because the last two chapters really picked up, but writing this review made me realise that the author basically spent 30 minutes on the wikipedia entry of Hungary, and that was all. :/ So I don't think I can give a book that disregards and disrespects Hungarian history and culture even that.Rep: Hungarian-Jewish coded main character, Hungarian-Turkish coded love interest