Now a Goodreads Choice nominee in Fantasy!“If you stare long enough into the darkness of the forest, eventually something will stare right back.”I’ve been looking for a good escapist fantasy I could really sink my teeth into. I’m not sure exactly how The Wolf and the Woodsman came up on my radar, but once I read the description I just knew I had to have it. I mean, just look at those comp titles— The Bear and the Nightingale, Spinning Silver?? As a debut??? I literally had no choice.Évike is everything you could want in a heroine. She’s an outsider in her pagan village, as the only girl who has grown up to have no powers. So when the feared Holy Order of the Woodsmen make an appearance, demanding the same familiar sacrifice of one “wolf-girl” from her community, it’s not a huge surprise that they don’t hesitate to offer Évike up to be taken. She’s bound and taken away to be presented to the king of Régország, who follows the Patrifaith, and eventually face a likely death.But nothing involving Évike ever seems to go as smoothly as it’s supposed to. The majority of their long journey back to the palace is through heavily wooded areas where all kinds of sinister creatures are known to roam. Further complicating matters, Évike meets Gáspár, who challenges what she believes she knows about the domineering religion in Régország. To survive, Évike will have to make sacrifices of her own, some more extreme than she could ever imagine, and face difficult truths about who she is and where she comes from.As present as magic is in this novel, religion plays just as significant a role. Though the names and customs are changed, you can feel the echos of real history’s power dynamics playing out in this fictional world. The Yehuli are representative of Jewish populations in Central/Eastern Europe, and the Patrifaith is the influence Christianity was exercising at the time. Pagan villages like Évike‘s also existed, much to the disdain of the expanding Christian empires. Though with her mixed Yehuli and pagan heritage, it’s up to her which parts of her identity she will hold on to and which she will discard completely. I have a bit of a soft spot for authors who have been told that their stories don’t belong. More often than not those stories in question feature characters that have been made to feel the same way. And I think a lot of us have held those feelings too, at one time or another. Évike is many things, but she starts as an outsider in her own community, and no matter where this story ends up taking her, that will always be a part of her identity. And the beautiful thing about Reid’s writing and fantasy in general is that you don’t have to be have the same cultural background as a character like Évike in order to identity with her.⁣ This is not a ‘clean’ fantasy where everything follows an easy formula. Expect a conflicted reading experience.I loved my time with this book. It’s equal parts mesmerizing and vicious, equipped with the full sting of an unforgiving world. There’s some dark and brutal elements, including body horror, violence and general gore, but Reid also creates a starkly beautiful setting, full of warmth and intricate world-building. My only regret is that it’s a standalone, the ending felt somewhat abrupt. But that may just be me wanting to see more of this world. Inspired by Jewish folklore and Hungarian history, by an author of the same heritage, The Wolf and the Woodsman is interwoven with magic, blood and betrayal. You’re not going to want to miss the chance to pick it up and read it for yourself.*Thanks to Harper Voyager for my finished copy!**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!