Is there such a thing as too many similes and metaphors? Rating: 🙂🙂🙂 2.5 (entertainment counts, I guess)(excerpts taken from a single chapter)“Seeing him pick his way around King János’s body like he would a puddle of muck in the road is what finally jolts me from my stupor.”“Nándor’s face is as pale as Saint István’s marble statue, smooth and unweathered by time.”"His eyes are glazed, slick, like stones in a riverbed""The men and women give full-bodied quakes, like the word itself is a ghost to be exorcised""My heart thrashes like willow branches in the wind, my throat and stomach burning"It spreads sickly, like a strewing of lambent petals, gleaming red and gold""Voices weave and tangle like a thousand dark threads.""Putting my fath in King Janos was ike boarding a ship with green rot in its hull and hoping it wouldn't sink. But Zsigmond making a deal with Nandor is like asking the river for mercy as its black water fills your lungs.""...they look like skewered mirror images of each other.""...it's a terrible sound, like the braying of a mule.""Water skims across my skin like the edge of a blade, hot and cold at once.""The absence [ears] of it makes his head look lopsided. Like a tree with branches but no roots.""But all my tears have been ground out of me, like dead skin scrubbed off a wound.""The memory seems as pale and hollow as the inside of a conch now, drained of all its warmth.""I think of Zsigmond holding me to his chest, but that memory feels twize removed, too, like I'm remembering a ghost.""The laugh sounds all wrong, like a river bubbling over and flooding someone's sod house.""I let Gaspar teach me a few words Merzani, and they catch my tongue like a sip of good wine."Nah, I don't think so, no.Also, a wonderful bonus because I love being a good human being."I wake sometime in the morning, when the sky is a pink as the shell of an ear, delicate and raw." (excuse me, what is this)Soo... I loved this book. I loved it so much I spent eight days trying to get through it. Loved it to such a magnanimous extent that I was loath to finish it, because duh, it was too good to finish. I loved this as much as I loved going to any sort of place with people included.In other words, I didn't love this at all. But I'll pretend I do, because I need to sleep and being fake always brings on the zzzz faster than any chloroform solution. The storyline was okay. Decent enough to force me to fight through the first 50 pages, because, if I'm being honest, it was very good. Up until it wasn't anymore.It dragged, lagged and basically made me want to tear chunks of my hair and sprinkle them upon every plot 'twist' that tried to leave me bamboozled, yet only made me question why was I still openmouthed. Maybe my expectations have lowered to such a degree that even mild changes of circumstance surprise me to a certain level. Look! A bird! Wait, no, that's a corpse being thrown! Ta da, surprise galore. I liked the pace up until the mid-point. After that, well, let's just say I felt as if my nails were being pulled out with a tennis racket. Whatever that means, honestly.I came into the book not expecting much, left the book... still not expecting much. I'm pretty certain that I'm already in a book slump, so that's nice? Yeah, super awesome. [Writing segment has been declined as cause of over-infused anger bombs that threatened to decimate humanity because the writing was not bad but also not good. Maybe annoying is the best word to describe it.]The characters were basically there just to have somebody to talk about, really.Intelligence? Let's sparkle it like rushing snow from the black mountains of Narnia.Good character ARC? Let us rejoice in it, like getting bitten by blood filled crabs on a summer morning.I am already feeling nauseous again. Great! See, I really don't see the point in having characters just for the sake of having characters.The MC was irrational, dumb and if I were to have been abused, both mentally and physically, I would look for the most cautious way to go about a mission, no? Am I wrong for wishing she would've been a better character? I was annoyed with her for half of the book and confused with her, for the other half. Sometimes she would think her decisions through and actually take the best course of action IN A WAR, to then throw all that down the bloody cow toilet because 'I'm a speshul wolf-girl with speshul powers' that frankly were of no use in the long run. So yeah, sacrifice more body parts and see where your stupidity gets you. No, really, I want to see it happen. I think most of my hatred for her was how she expressed herself, and how she acted, and basically her in general. Asking the love interest to kneel and expect me, out of nowhere, to be like 'OmG that is like, so hawt OMG'. Sweetie, I'm afraid that didn't work this time. Because yes, sometimes, it actually works. I was sad to see such a potentially strong heroin be made this whinny, repetitive, annoying, crybaby, useless, thing. I'm honestly flabbergasted at how quickly my 'ooooo, this is about to be good!' stage deteriorated just by reading her entire monologues about the sky. Boo, I don't need to know it looks like  a hairy back nor if it smells like puddles of poo. Direct quote? Maybe, my dahlings. I didn't need to know all the ways you could say that the villain had pale skin. I know he had pale skin. And I certainly did not need to know all the different and speshul ways to describe everyone else’s skin color. It just is, don't come here acting like some guy’s skin is like the moist bark of the Amazonian forest or something. I'm not that dense, I get it. Then we have the rest of the characters. Which I cared about as much as I care about working in summer (just give us free money or something, pfft. Never mind, I must say it cultivates... ange- maturity *me pretending to know what I'm talking about*)We have the wolf-girls, didn't really care about them.After that, we have the high society. Wasn't very interested.And following the previous things, we have the love interest and the villain. The latter being the only thing worthy of a lot of mention, not specifically dedicated for rant purposes.Gaspar, the lovely so-no-like-other-woodsmen-because-I'm-a-prince-that-cannot-stand-for-myself. Can you tell him and the MC share a colonial thinking system? He gets the start and she gets the butt-end. Get it? He’s slightly higher than- okay, he was smarter is what I’m trying to say. And by smarter, I mean he didn't jump headfirst into metaphorical piranha infested waters. But then we take his personality in hand... and of course, what personality am I even referring to? I don't even know. He was nice, which was good, lost potential, which was as predicted, and that's all there is to him. Sad, yet obvious. I expected him to be a villain, I wanted that to happen. I wanted him to be at least semi evil, but noooo, he was awfully treated and misunderstood. Where have I heard that before? Oh right, all those novels that disappointed me. One of the few characters (as mentioned above) that was at least good enough to be considered a correct use of my otherwise wasted time. The villain, Nandor. See, I really, REALLY hated him. Like, a lot. And that's exactly what I was supposed to feel! He was so full of venom, vitriol and cruel intentions, it's a surprise he didn't carry this book. Oh wait, I think he did. I didn't like him for being a bad guy, I liked him for the exact reason that he excelled in being this piece of horse dung. And frankly, that's the only thing that made me go 'wow, this man is awful. I want to see him suffer' and not want to cry because of the mental torture I was going through. My first thought (as it always is), was that he would be a love interest. Before, you know, seeing him kill and torture animals and people. That puts a certain damper to my villain-hate-to-love premise I was nurturing, if you get what I mean. The romance doesn't even deserve a single paragraph. But I'll still say something, of course.Together, they made the sloppiest, most watered down, disgustingly salty, Mcdonald's soda ever to exist. That certain one that looks appetizing with all its bubbles and then, on the first drink, makes you doubt every nerve in your body that predicted it was going to be at least somewhat decent.That's what the 'romance' was. On a closing note, like I said up there, this book was the love of my life. And I feel so happy that I had the chance to read such a masterpiece in such a long period of time. I loved the characters, adored the writing (even when it mentioned a metaphor of pink cables when the MC wouldn't even know what cables are), would die for the romance and- actually, I would die because of the romance. That's it, really. After I gave up on trying to like this story, I knew that it would be a rant. And I also knew I would have the urge to kill something at the end of said rant.Oh, to be a fly on the wall of Hades. I would love to know when he's thinking of new ways to torture me-P.S: Still in a book slump. Wonder why?............................✅Book slumpI want the week I spent reading this, back.I want it back.I could've been doing so many more things.And this is where I spent my time.No.I am in pain................................I hope this is good.