I am so so sad that this didn't work out. With all the comparisons with Naomi Novik and Katherine Arden I was sure it would be my favourite. Now I'm worried about  For the Wolf, another upcoming release that is compared with Novik and Arden. ( UPDATE: For the Wolf was as bad as this one )The entire plot of this story revolves around heroine trying to save the people who severely abused her all her life. Personally, I found that extremely triggering and can't continue with this book. I strongly believe that  it's not the responsibility of the abused to save their abusers.  Any book that argues against this simply goes into my hate-list. If that wasn't bad enough, the characterisation is also awful. Simply put,  the main character doesn't read like someone who has been abused her whole life.  If anything, she reacts like a brat who always had everything she wanted. She's rude. She says everything that comes to her mind before she thinks about it. She doesn't give a single thought about angering her captors. Just to be clear, I don't have a problem with her because I think she's unlikeable. I have a problem with her because there is no way someone who has been bullied her whole life would act like this. Here's the thing, people, all people, are extremely adaptable to their environments. That means that if you're in an environment that every time you talk, there could be the risk of physical abuse ( which through her memories we see that's the case ) you end up thinking very carefully about what you say. And you'll continue to do that even after you leave that place. I expected someone with her background to act very differently. If not broken, then at least she should've acted like a very cautious person. Now I see why the author might have wanted to write her as someone with a lot of rage inside her. That could be expected from someone in that position. A more skilled author could've written her as someone with a lot of suppressed anger, who doesn't show it and can also act very cautiously to avoid immediate pain. Something I learned from this book though, is that Reid is not a very skilled author. ----pre-reading: OMG OMG it's here! I've heard Novik comparison and I honestly don't need to hear anything else.