DNF 30% - this is a hard no from me. The Wolf and the Woodsman is everything I dislike in YA fantasy (the first person present tense narration, the libidinous teenage couple in the foreground) plus a dash of the stuff I dislike in adult fantasy (mutilation, gore, religious zealotry). The most interesting bits of Hungarian folklore are relegated to side notes, the writing is a mess, and my favorite character is an exploding chicken monster. Oh, and the libidinous teenage protagonist? Evike is actually 25 (going on 16) but still has mean girl problems, a penchant for pissing off people who save her life, and an internal monologue so tortured that it takes her three paragraphs to eat a bowl of stew. And that's nothing compared to how many paragraphs are devoted to thinking about boning her captor / secret prince / traveling buddy Gaspar. Maybe a better writer could have carried off the story, but Ava Reid confuses verbosity for lushness and commits terrible crimes against figurative language. Individual sentences may not seem that heinous ("The memory of her telling is perfectly lucid, crystalline, and it shines in my mind like a bit of broken glass"), but they compound like interest on a bad credit card and drag the whole story down. I don't think I'm imagining the note of regret in his voice, nor the dark pall that casts over his face, but it does nothing to calm the fury and horror boiling in my belly. What little gratitude I had toward him for saving my life slivers away, like a crescent moon turning new. His dainty flushes and proud nose, the pliant tenor of his voice - all of it is a veneer for his barbarity.First of all, I don't think this is how the phrase 'cast a pall over' works; secondly, the moon metaphor does absolutely nothing here; and thirdly, are we really supposed to find 'dainty flushes' attractive? More imprecise language from my reading notes: "We move farther in until I am drowned up to my waist." This is not how drowning works. Although Evike seems to think with the organs between her legs, so maybe she also breathes with them? Hmm. "Its breath reeks of burning flesh and rotted wood and a few tears prick at the corners of my eyes, futile and doomed." Can something be futile without also being doomed?Ignore the comparisons to Katherine Arden and Naomi Novik. There might be interesting mythology, history, and religion buried deep in The Wolf and the Woodsman, but it's not worth wading through the turbid prose and unlikable characters for.