“Spend too long watching the long game and the short game will kill you.”

I have a special place in my heart for chessmaster-type characters who weave complex plots and plans that takes decades in the making. Carefully placing pawns across the board, ready for moves to be made years from now. Setting everything up so that a single pull of a string would make all plots flow together into one glorious outcome. Abbess Glass delivers on that account, and it’s delicious to read.But I have a confession to make. Although from an emotional point of view I root for Nona and Friends, just because we've spent time in their heads and have grown attached to them, on a purely logical level I sympathize with our baddie, the Emperor’s sister Sherzal. It can be frustrating, even if it’s sadly realistic, to see how on the verge of an upcoming ecological catastrophe, humans are so wrapped up in killing each other that no one thinks about uniting against the disaster. Sherzal is the only one who sees the big picture and wants to harness the power of nature. And yes, there are better and less bloody ways to achieve her goal, but I also appreciate that she is not excluding people outside of the Empire. At the same time, our xenophobic heroes dismiss the Battle Queen’s people as savages, just because they have a different interpretation of their faith. Hm, I guess I might have ended up a villain if I lived in that world.

“The greatest threat to any faith is not other faiths or beliefs but the corruption and division of its own message”

One thing didn’t work for me. Nona is so super-powered that even when she ends up in impossible situations, it’s often clear she’ll find a way out. At a couple of points the narrative tries to create false tension that is then dissolved very quickly and easily, so that there is no sense of danger. One example, in spoiler tags since it happens at the very end:Nona plans to walk the Path, so that she can move the carriage with all her allies. Kettle and Ara go “oh no, that’s absolutely not possible, you just walked the Path an hour ago!” At that point it’s pretty clear Nona will somehow walk the Path and she’ll somehow make it work, so I’m thinking okay, go on with it already. But then we have pages and pages of how it is impossible, and one has to wait for seven moons to be sure, and then we get detailed accounts of all those horrific stories of sisters who walked the Path too early and terrible things happened. And then, Nona makes an offhand comment that she was close to the shipheart and it restored her, walks the Path, and all is fine. All the tension seems fake and I feel it should have been skipped altogether.Examples like the one above cheapen all the scenes where we have real tension and danger, and we have plenty of those. They would have felt stronger without these fakeouts. Of course, there’s one more book in the series, and it’s possible the event I describe above has actual consequences that affect the plot. Seems unlikely at this stage, but if that happens, I take back my words.Having said that, I continue to love the worldbuilding. It was a delight to discover more about Abeth's history, landscape, and people. The mythology around the Missing and all the lost knowledge surrounding them is becoming more fascinating with every page.