Just like the first book in the series this was a good coming of age action fantasy. Mark Lawrence has a fairly engaging writing style and the story had a good mix of action, humour, and drama. It also possessed characters that were easy to like and root for as well as a very intriguing fantasy world. The big plus is Grey Sister eliminated most of the flaws that held me back from giving Red Sister a full 5 star rating and was just a better book on the whole! In terms of story it was more of the same as Nona spent time learning and growing her skills in the Convent of Sweet Mercy while being caught up in the political machinations of the Empire on the whole. She still has the ire of the Tacsis family and and the Convent as a whole remains of interest to the Emperor and his scheming sister Sherzal! The story was pretty exciting and held my full attention from start to finish. That is an upgrade on Red Sister which I felt was a little hard to get into. With the world building firmly established and the characters already known to us readers it was easy to love Grey Sister from the very first page.I feel like Grey Sister was a book improvement over Red Sister for a whole bunch of reasons. First was the disappearance, mostly, of the wretched flashforwards we had to suffer while reading Red Sister. I hated those things and felt they really detracted from the story as they were riddled with bleak and depressing spoilers! Second was a lessoning of the overly grim and bleak tone. This was still a gritty fantasy world full of grey characters but this time around I felt like Lawrence toned down a bit of the bleakness and the story ended up with a better, and more enjoyable, balance to it. Third was the fact that the story jumped ahead a few years which aged all the characters up by a few years. That was badly needed as the dialogue in the first book felt so unrealistic for kids that were so young!Nona is the star of these books, and a super easy lead character to root for, but I felt like she was well supported in this one by Glass and Zole, both of whom showed great growth from the first book, and by Koet, the crazy new addition to the story! Glass and Kettle also had a good outing in this instalment. The only character who got less screen time was Ara. On the whole I felt poor Ara got a bit sidelined in this second book. In the first book I felt like she was being set up as Nona's main love interest but that seems to have changed in this one. Regol looks primed for that role now. I wonder what prompted the change in direction? I preferred Nona/Ara as the romance but could still buy into Regol/Nona as long as Lawrence plays it super slow. The Missing and Lawrence's fantasy world on the whole remains a fun and fascinating place but I do hope he expands on the hints we get about the Missing and some of the other intriguing mysteries in the story.All in all I really enjoyed this and feel like it vies with Prince of Thorns as the best book I've read from Lawrence! I cannot wait for the third instalment.Rating: 5 stars. An easy rating as this sorted most of the flaws from the first book and lost none of the stuff that made the story so enjoyable:)Audio Note: I've got used to Helen Duff and felt she did fine with this one.