4.5**** rounded up!There is purity in rage. It will burn out sorrow. For a time. It will burn out fear.... Rage is the gift out nature gave to us, shaped by untold years. Why discard it?I was so glad to be back in Nona’s world of Abeth for the second book in this trilogy series. This book picked up right from the ending of the last book where we get to see a certain Sister’s fate. The book then suddenly switches to two years later where Nona has now entered Mystic Class at Sweet Mercy.Here she is still angered over her friends death and vying for more revenge. Certain events happened in the first book and we get to see what the outcome of this was and how it effected and changed Nona and Sweet Mercy. In Mystic Class Nona has new enemies to deal with, those that are privileged and spiteful as well as bitter over Nona’s killing of a Tacsis- a powerful and rich family member. They will stop at nothing to try and see Nona punished, banished or out to death at Sweet Mercy.However, we also get to see Nona’s beloved classmates from the first book. This book relied heavily on the importance of loyalty and friendships which Nona needs as a reprieve from her grief and anger. These scenes of friendships were often magnificent and warm-hearted in an otherwise cold dark world. This books also explored POV’s from Abbess Glass- the head of Sweet Mercy. Sweet Mercy is not safe and the Inquisitors are upon them to ensure that no questions are asked against the Church’s religion and that the “correct” teachings are closely followed. Through Abbess Glass we get to see the politics that are played across Abeth on a grander scale as well as the influence and power of the Church across the Empire. This book largely focuses on politics and religion and how these are used as a weapon to suit those in power. We get to see Abbess Glass in all her cunningness, wits and observations as she battles to play the game and keep Sweet Mercy safe from others hands. While the first book was more slow paced and cut back to Nona’s childhood and time outside Sweet Mercy, the second book was so tension filled and fast paced that I had a hard time putting it down. I love this world, Nona Grey and her friends. As Nona as well as Abbess Glass have more enemies stacked against them, I can’t wait to see how things conclude in book 3! I hope it is bloody and with much needed revenge.