5 walk the path StarsThat moment when you are happily surprised that not more of your favorite characters died, but reluctant because there is one more book and than means that they aren't safe yet and you know there is a bloodbath coming.OMG it is like Mark Lawrence has been the reader of book in a series before and thought ‘man I hate all this recapping and I totally forgot who dude#6 was’. Well he saved me from any of those feelings by giving a super brief intro to remind you of all the important stuff you’d need to remember from the first book.You might be thinking nuns, well that sounds utterly boring and nice. You would be wrong, especially when they are specially trained assassins. Sure they learn about ‘The Ancestor’ their deity but for nuns in training they spend much more time learning how to kill a man with a toothpick than praying.Nona is wonderful in a stabby stabby kind of way. As someone who can kill you in a hundred ways she is really a pretty nice girl for the most part, just remember to be her friend and not her enemy.
”I love you as a sister, and when we die we will be together in the Ancestor, our blood mixed.” […] ”But I must warn you, sister, that a sickness runs in me, and if you fashion yourself my enemy I will make a ruin of your life, for I am born of war.”
We fast forward to four years past Red Sister and Nona has grown. She is stronger, she has even more people she considers friends and has found a home at the covenant. She has also gained a devil under her skin but more on that later. But once again we have come to a fork in the road for Nona and everything in her life is about to change again.The best part of this book was that we get not only Nona’s PoV but one from Abbess Glass too. I have to say that in Red sister the two characters that I wanted to know more about were Glass and Zole so getting a PoV from Glass opened up my understanding of the story so much more. Zole is still a little bit of a mystery, however I like ‘The Chosen One’ more and more as the pages turn. But Abbess Glass is a wonder and even being in her head it was clear that the reader is still going to be surprised by the political machinations happening.Keot was my favorite new character. He is one of the missing and currently under the skin of little Nona. And Keot is no Jiminy Cricket, unless Jiminy started smoking bath salts. All Nona needs is someone urging her to kill…kill…kill. Still Keot gives the reader insight to the missing and some of the history to this world along with something for Nona to interact with.Another thing I really like about the entire series is that the sisters of the Ancestor really do rally around each other. I love how the bonds between almost all of the sisters are tied and just how far each would go for the others. Even the girls Nona’s age are building some extremely solid bonds. I love how each tries to lift the others higher, or pushes them to be better.
I've been at this convent five years, Keot, and I've learned to believe in something more than myself. All this time Wheel has been banging on about the Ancestor, about all those who came before and have gone beyond. But the larger thing I believe in is what's here and now. Those novices are my friends and I would die for them. I would face a terror for them that I haven't the courage to stand against on my own behalf.
With the revelations throughout the book it will be interesting to see just how this all plays out. Will we get more information about the arc’s and shiphearts. Like what they were and how the missing are a part of them. I want to understand the mirror that is the moon and if it can be used to save this dying planet or is it still doomed to fall. I for one am very excited to see where this story will lead us.