Red Sister was probably the best first in a series book I read last year so even if I try to lower my expectations when I read any book, I can’t say they were none. The world enchanted me, the characters amazed me, and the plot entertained me quite a lot. While Grey Sister didn’t disappoint, it pales in comparison with Red Sister. My memory was fuzzy when I started reading this book and Mark Lawrence provided a summary which was helpful, however, I would’ve liked more info about Zole and Joeli. And maybe the ending? I was able to figure out stuff along the road, though. Still, I’m very thankful! More authors should do that. In this book Nona is around 15 in mystic class. As she tries to survive every day’s life in Sweet Mercy, among friends and “enemies”, the people she hurt from her past haven’t forgotten her. I honestly can’t give a longer premise because then I would have to talk more in detail and they aren’t few. As much as that might make the book look like it was full action. It wasn’t. It was slow and bored me a bit at first. By that I mean I could’ve easily stopped reading anytime. It didn’t keep me interested. However, I made it through the first 20% (I guess) and things started to pick up. I became interested in some plots like the cave and Nona’s interactions with Joeli. While some events intrigued me, like what would be the grey sister trial and if Nona is going to pass, and when things got into motion for the finale of this book the arrival of the inquisition, others made me to stop reading altogether. I understand why Abbess Glass’s chapters are necessary however, her journey chapters held so little useful information. I get that they play a role in the twist at the end, but they could’ve been summed up all the same. I wanted to jump to Nona’s chapters (it made me feel bad, though, because the Abbess is such a great character). We discover a lot about her past and the politics of this world. I wanted to learn more about the Missing but alas I think it’ll be reserved for the final book of the trilogy. The most memorable character in this book for me was Zole. She’s so mysterious and unpredictable. Unlike Nona who is always angry at the world, Zole is focused and always keeps her cool. I wish we saw more of her. It’s a very nice change that the MC isn’t the chosen one. I can’t wait to see what the Agartha will do in the third book which I expect to be the best. I also liked Kettle and Apple’s relationship even more in this book. Such great characters! Looking forward to learning more about them. The second main problem I had with this book was how much it resembled Red Sister. Nona, the totally awesome most badass kid ever, stayed the same. She didn’t feel like an 8 yo in Red Sister and she certainly doesn’t feel like a 15 yo in this book. She sounded the same. No character development. Maybe yes, more honest but other than that, I couldn’t find anything distinctive. Grey sister ignored one of the things I liked about it the most in the first book: friendship. Her relationship with Ara and the others was barely explored. Same old same old. We saw so little of them. I wish it was more developed because it’s one of the highlights of this series. We saw more of Nona/Zole interactions but even that wasn’t satisfying. Briefly, this book was entertaining but if you are expecting something better than its prequel, you better lower your expectations from now. It’s still worth reading because this trilogy is something else. Not many teen-ish high fantasy worth reading out there. It certainly outshine Prince of Thorns (which btw I couldn’t finish). Nona is so dark but also kind and cares about her friends. Mark’s writing style is stunning although he described certain things too much sometimes. Can’t wait to know how the events will unfold in the finale! I hope it takes less than a year to come out since it’s already written but somehow, I doubt it.