Now a Goodreads Choice finalist in Young Adult Fantasy & Science Fiction!
Welp. I’m done. It’s over. Chloe Gong has succeeded in ruining my life. I hope you’re happy now, Chloe!!!!!I’m not going to include any spoilers for either this book or These Violent Delights, so nobody needs to worry about having this duology ruined for them accidentally. But that probably means that it will be a little shorter, a little more vague than my usual reviews. So bear with me here as I try to unpack all the ~feelings~ I’ve been floating around in for the past few days since I’ve finished Our Violent Ends.The biggest difference I noticed between the first book and the sequel has been the focus of the plot. There’s a lot more attention on the politics of Shanghai in this time period, eventually leading up to the Shanghai Purge of April 12, 1927 (you can google if you wish). While These Violent Delights had a supernatural monster terrorizing the city, the monsters of Our Violent Ends are the men pulling the strings. They’re the ones starting conflicts they won’t have to join the frontlines for, and who will do anything to grasp on to power for as long as possible. In that way, they’re even scarier to consider because they aren’t simply a figure of the author’s imagination, but fictionalized versions of real kinds of people.The pacing of this book also felt a lot more even, possibly because there wasn’t as much background that had to be introduced in a follow-up. More time is spent with the supporting characters and we get to understand their motivations outside of ‘how do we support Roma and Juliette in whatever schemes they’ve cooked up?’ And in my limited Shakespeare experience, the influence of Romeo and Juliet was much more pronounced in this novel than the previous. I noticed more parallels and direct references than I did with book one, though I still think both are fully their own stories. If you’ve been following Chloe Gong on social media (highly recommend fwiw), you may have seen references to her next book Foul Lady Fortune and how the main character of it is someone we already know.Happy to report that when you finish Our Violent Ends you will know who this character is (probably). I’m hesitant to say much more about the ending other than it’s bittersweet, explosive and mostly definitive. After reading both of these books almost back-to-back, you can see how Chloe Gong has progressed as a writer, and I can’t wait to pick up with this imaginative world and character(s) in the future. That said, I’m fully satisfied with how this duology has progressed and am actually dying to talk about it with someone.*Thanks Margaret K. McElderry Books/Simon Teen & Netgalley for an advance review copy!**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!