“These violent delights have violent ends, you have always known this.”
Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ (no joke)❗❗Regretfully Spoiler-free ARC Review.❗❗HOW IS THIS EVEN BETTER THAN THE FIRST ONE?!?! I cried so much over this book, I look like I was attacked by bees!!!I don't even know where to begin with this. I am so utterly wrecked by this, I will never be the same again. For one thing, this was so incredibly well-written. The plot, the descriptions, the plot twists. Just AMAZING!! It was bad enough that I was crying uncontrollably, but to have my mind completely and utterly blown, at the same time....it was just so damn cruel Chloe Gong!!! And, somehow, I am eternally grateful for it...what a sucker!! There were so many moments that ABSOLUTELY KILLED ME. There's a reason this book is called, Our Violent Ends...because it was definitely my violent end!!! However, nothing killed me like that cruel, cruel ending!!! Without getting into spoilers, you will cry, it will be ugly, and you won't be able to stop. Word of advice, DO NOT finish this past midnight...you will not sleep a wing afterwards. I am still not okay. I may or may not be experiencing deep, unrelenting emotional instability....and so will you. Guaranteed!!**There is absolutely NOTHING I didn't like about this book. This entire series. That's how good both books were.**Sufficed to say, the characters were just as good, if not even better, than in the first book. Everyone, from hero to villain, was so well-written, so fascinating and natural, I forgot that I was reading about fictional people. (Admittedly, this happens with most of the books I read, but even more so with this one.) The Romuliette content was *chef's kiss* from start to end. The tension, the fighting, the looooove. 💜😭💜😭💜 Like seriously...so, so good!!! In fact, I loath that I can't write exactly what I am referring to, because it's all gooooood stuff. But alas, I am no asshole, I will not spoil such a masterpiece and ruin it for you. Now for my other favourite pairing in the series, Benedikt and Marshall, the content was just as good as Romuliette's. So good I'm holding back tears writing this. Again, I can't get into too much detail without spoiling, so you're gonna have to wait and read for yourselves, but one thing I can say is, the ship support between Romuliette and Benshall (is this a good enough ship name) filled me with warm and wholesome joy!!! Another thing I can say is, how precious the Marshall x Juliette friendship was. They clicked like they've been friends forever!! ...Aaand I'm about to start crying again...Marshall is still my favourite (duh), and I CANNOT BELIEVE I actually felt bad for Tyler....Uncool, Chloe Gong. Uncool.If you read this book/series, you will love and hate everything at the same time, you will ugly cry, you will curse your ability to feel. So, you should definitely read this.You can also check out my reviews of These Violent Delights and A RomaJuliette Christmas Special.