“I’ll love you with all my heart, in every life, through every death. I will not be bound by anything but my love for you.” Passion follows after Luce stepped into the Announcer. She wants to pursue her past and what she gets from it will lead her to the end game this time. I did enjoy this book when I read the first half, it's full of adventues, heart-wreching moments, and historical settings. Lauren Kate successfully delievered the story in Passion, she not only tried to present their undying love, but also got us through the most desperate time when Daniel and Luce have no way out of this torment and Daniel's always left to be alone.“There is only hope. One day, you will live through it. That absolute truth is the only thing that keeps me going. I will never give up on you. Even if it takes forever.” I adore the time-travelling part for it represents how this series should have been since Fallen, emotional, heartbreaking, and deep. I've got so many answers from Passion, though. About how did the Fallen start ? Why is Luce still alive after she kissed Daniel ? Yes, the author put me out of misery by giving me the answers I have been searching for centuries. My heart's broken when Daniel wants to kill himself by plunging himself off of the cliff. I totally understood what he feels for Luce is beyond my imagination. His love is everything, larger than his life.“Love is the only thing worth fighting for.” Well, if it's not for Luce, this book might get four stars from me. Even though I've known her since Fallen, I still can't get past her logic. She changes her mind so fast I can't even catch up what she's gonna do next. Ewwww, I think she doesn't deserve Daniel because she can stop and find her way out to end this journey and be with him, but she hasn't. She keeps pushing to acknowledge what happened between her and Daniel, though she finds nothing at the end. It'll be easier if she just asks him and Daniel tells her. Ummm, that I-can't-tell-her-unless-I-want-to-lose-her-again thing is a big problem in the story, though.By the way, the ending of Passion got me to Rapture to find out whether Daniel and Luce will get their HEA and everything they have done is worth thier effort and exertion or not. It nearly ends and the war is coming. I'm dying to know.“I'll always choose you." Yes that was the word. "Every single lifetime, I'll choose you. Just as you have always chosen me. Forever.” This song popped out of nowhere while I was reading this : https://youtu.be/rtOvBOTyX00https://goo.gl/Mlh52q