Foolishness, sir. How can old wounds heal while maggots linger so richly? Or a peace hold for ever built on slaughter and a magician's trickery? I see how devoutly you wish it, for your old horrors to crumble as dust. Yet they await in the soil as white bones for men to uncover (p327)Uncanny, haunting, I must have read this novel at the right time for me as it found a sure spot under my skin and disturbed my normally peaceful sleep.It seems to me that Ishiguro is one of those writers who is always writing the same novel, or better said, has an ideal novel inside himself that he approaches from different angles. Each published book an attempt, as on to a mountain, on a different face.I say this because reading the sense of the concern about memory, the workings of the mind, the secrets we hide from ourselves came across to me as being essentially the same here as in The Artist of the Floating World, When we were Orphans, and what I recall of The remains of the Day - though I have the horrible feeling, awful for a reader to confess to that I know the last only from the film. That here there are dragons, ogres, and hobbit like Britons rather than faded artists of Japanese Imperialism is surface ephemera. The theme I take to be the same.Impossible to imagine how a Japanese person, resident in Britain - two Imperial countries with bloody histories that those who have experienced them from a different perspective find that they have not come to terms with - since the age of five might have become so exercised with the issue of people hiding things that they would prefer not to admit to from themselves. Not that the value of forgetfulness, allowing the conscience to sleep with fewer troubles, is a quality unique to those two imperial peoples. In this novel the enforced loss of memory has kept the peace, but prevented healing or true reconciliation. Everything has been hidden. Everybody's past lost. Even every individual couple are impacted by this down to our two principal view point characters the aged Beatrice and Axl. Lone fragments recalled are a source of uncertainty. But part of memory can be resentment, anger, hatred all of which are lost in the collective amnesia. Knowledge, even - or particularly- self knowledge, comes at a cost. Oedipus told us that and how meaningful these old stories still are to us.I was bowled over and completely impressed by this story, another King Arthur story and it is true that I've read plenty since I was small, yet oddly this one captured for me the feeling of Sir Gawaine lost in hill country beyond Cheshire searching for the Green Chapel that combined in my childish imagination with being lost in fog wandering through the park on the way to Junior school, more than many another. Not a book I'll recommend to everyone, but certainly very strongly to some.A couple may claim to be bonded by love, but we boatmen may see instead resentment, anger, even hatred. Or a great barrenness. Sometimes a fear of loneliness and nothing more (p49)