my new review after my 4th reread:godsgrave starts almost a year after nevernight, with mia setting her plan to avenge her familia in motion. but there is quite a significant gap of information between the last scene in nevernight and the first scene in godsgrave, with mia in the desert. so, to bridge that gap, the first third of the story is told in alternating timelines, which adds to the main plotline in a frankly genius way. the information is revealed gradually, and kept me on the edge of my seat trying to find out information our characters already knew. in my opinion, that did wonders for the buildup of tension in the beginning, something that was severely lacking in book 1.besides that, another thing that's greatly improved in godsgrave is our main character, mia. i love mia so fucking much in al her flaws and complexities, but we can all agree that my girl is kind of a hypocrite. she blames people for killing people she likes in the name of revenge while literally murdering hundreds to avenge her family. to say that her moral compass is skewed would be an understatement. but in godsgrave, instead of following her vengeance blindly, she begins to question if it's all really worth it, and if the people she kills along the way deserve it. it's honestly one of my favorite character arcs ever. how at first she put herself on an unreachable pedestal of superior morality with her reasoning that scaeva, remus and duomo must die, while judging everyone else who does the same, to questioning who she is what made her become like that, if her revenge and everything she's done to achieve it are really worth it, and if it's really a good excuse for her actions and cruelty. i absolutely love her journey, and darkdawn wraps it up even more beautifully.besides nailing the characterization of mia and the pacing, godsgrave also takes the action to a whole new level. instead of training with swords like in nevernight, now mia's swordsmanship is put to the test with actual gladiator battles. they're brutal, bloody, and beautiful. the action is not only more interesting, it's also more consistent throughout the book, having high-stakes fight scenes from the beginning to the end. there are so many battles here that are frankly iconic, and so fucking awesome, that i truly believe they are some of the best out there in the fantasy genre.there is so much more that i could say about godsgrave, but 99.99% of it would just be praise. it's no secret i love this book with all my soul, but not everybody does. in fact, the nevernight series (and especially book 1), although being very hyped, is very polarizing, and has received some very legitimate criticism. one complaint that this series frequently receives is about the writing: how it's pretentious, or too flowery, or the footnotes too distracting. and to be honest, whether that bothers you or not is purely based on personal preference. but i can say without a doubt that if you had problems with those aspects in nevernight, you'll definitely enjoy godsgrave more, as we as readers are already established in the world and familiar with the tone, and the author doesn't have to go out of their way to tell you how this book and story work, so the writing turns out not as in-your-face. i could honestly write a master thesis on why this book is a masterpiece, but i'm afraid i would be the only one interested. so i'll leave this review like this: the nevernight chronicle has its flaws and its shortcomings, and not everybody enjoys it. but if you think there's a slight chance you might enjoy it, that you might come to love this series just a fraction of how much i do, then please, read this series.