Read #2, 2019 - 5 starsStill as neck-twistingly, gut-punchingly and mind-numbingly wild and merciless and unpredictable as the first time around (and this was my second time reading it). I love the layers Godsgrave adds to the series, the new characters it introduces and the phenomenal plot twists it throws your way towards the last 10%. Probably the most unpredictable book I have ever read. I love Mia so, so very much. And while I don't want to let go, I cannot wait to finally read Dardawn after the endless wait. Especially knowing that this story will always be this great, no matter how many times I read it. Read #1, 2018 - 5 stars"Dark delight in her belly.Warm blood on her hands.Mia closed her eyes.Raised her blade.'O, Mother, blackest Mother, what have I become?'"Back when I wrote down some of my thoughts on Nevernight, my conclusion was that while I thoroughly enjoyed it, there was still a bit of... room for more. More blood, more revenge, more cruelty.Well, something listened. You know how second books in trilogies are often described to suffer from a "second-book-syndrome"? Godsgrave does not. In a way, it almost felt like I was reading the first book in a series, only that it was full of characters I already loved, a world I already knew and mythology I was already familiar with. Which meant that this time, there was no introductory period. It was guts and dubious morality right off the bat, and it was so unbelievably exhilarating. Yet at the same time, we got to see such a different side of Itreya, got to meet so many new characters I got attached to, just to see them killed, hOw FuN. In a way, I guess it felt like I was coming home, but I had just gone decor-shopping and was now redecorating. So, IT WAS AWESOME.This sequel packs exactly the punch I was hoping it would. The new setting and life as a gladiatii is, in a way, even more dangerous and ruthless than the Red Church was, Mia's competitors more unforgiving. And the battle scenes - I'm not gonna lie, they had me breathless most of the time, and even brought tears to my ears occasionally just because they were so intense? It was a strange experience, and one that hit me somewhat unexpectedly. But I am quite certain that the characters are to blame, because at this point, Mia is basically one of my all time favorites, and seeing her constantly putting her life on the line does things to my heart that it does not approve of. She had such a wonderful evolution in this book, started to see darkness beyond the shadows she herself was causing, and once more proved that although she is intent on having her revenge, she remains loyal to those she calls her friends. Also, I don't want to give too much away, but... THE ROMANCE IN THIS? I WAS BLESSED BY AA AND ALL FOUR OF HIS DAUGHTERS. One of my favorites from book 1 returned (as I was desperately hoping they would), and everything progressed so slowly and then unfolded so beautifully and wow. Nonetheless, it never lost sight of bigger plot points, and gave a few hints here and there, obviously without ever giving away too much and setting up most of the bigger reveals for the final installment. (Which will end me.) Another major thing that I absolutely loved and that Godsgrave newly introduced, I feel like, was doubt. First and foremost when it came not only to Mia's own motivations, but also to those of others. And again, not trying to spoil anything here, but there was an impressive amount of gray areas that made it difficult to tell good from bad, hero from villain. I would feel secure in my beliefs one second, only to question them in the next chapter. And finally... I am mad. Mad, because NO ONE seemed to deem it a good idea, maybe, to put a limit to Jay Kristoff and his apparent obsession to destroy his readers with all. These. P L O T T W I S T S. There were just too many turns that I never saw coming, some smaller, some bigger, until that ending... cut my throat to the bone. Ear to ear. Just the way I like it.Godsgrave is what I wanted, mixed with a good amount of stuff I never wanted because it hurt too much, so basically it was all I ever wanted. And my thirst for blood is quenched. For now.