THIS BOOK IS SMOKING HOT BECAUSE IT’S ABOUT LIBRARY FROM HELL! So giving my four hellish, hot-tish, racks of book-ish and damsel in distress-ish stars coming up with a cup of white tea (more sugar, more milk please)Well, I thanked my lucky stars and I was about to write a long thank you letter to NetGalley to not reject me this time and send this book ( I possibly thought to barter my jean collection to have this book or sale my soul but thankfully I didn’t need to do that! Who buys 57 jeans a year? Me! Who lost her soul for more Chardonnay? Yeah, again me!)Think about a library in hell, full of characters trapped in because of their unfinished books, being called “damsel in distress”! Same library has a strict, tough librarian ( forget about the bespectacled, sexy, intellectual models fantasized by horny men population!), once upon a time is also a writer, left her unfinished books, fell in love with one of her characters and lost everything she had, convicted herself to be guardian of the books in hell forever.Now the bible of hell is out there and she needed to find it before the fallen angel of Ramiel. Her team members to achieve this goal: a hero, who escaped from the library to find his own writer and convinced her to finish the book (they had a small romantic interaction) , a clever, skillful muse Brevity and demon courier ( but some parts of him are still human) Leto and hot but shady arcanist Andras.I enjoyed the authors’ imagination and I visualized this book as a perfect limited series. Think about it! With the art director of Fantastic Beasts and where to find them, you may see a beautiful world of books and its characters had some many unfinished business. A long and dangerous journey from Valhalla to the hells’ gates, never ending battle of angels and demons! This time you have to chant for the hell raisers because interestingly they are the good ones!I already made my dream cast for this project: Claire/Librarian of hell: Claire FoyBrevity/ muse: Jodie Comer ( all time favorite villanelle could show her inspirational side)Andras/ arcanist: Go back and forth between Michael Fassbender and Tom EllisHero: Henry Cavill ( you couldn’t find better hero than superman!)Leto: Nick Jonas no no kidding, Harry Styles, okay no more teasing, my best candidate is Asa Butterfield!Beatrice: Rachel Weisz (if 007 let his wife join my visualized brain series)Ramiel: David Tennant ( Same man could be Crowley, Doctor Who, Killgrave and killed all those performances! Yes this man is not real human, he could only be a watcher!)Uriel: Are you kidding me? Of course EMMA THOMPSON!I had some hard times to connect with the characters because they were so tough, a little merciless and selfish so their lack of compassion (except librarian’s protectiveness about Leto) a little irritated me. But at least my visual cast solves this problem and stop me punch them.As a summary, strong plot, fast paced, well-rounded development, vivid characters and this book is about books so how could I not like it?So much special thanks to NetGalley and Berkley Publishing to send me this wonderful ARC COPY in exchange my honest review and make me sing “Walking on Sunshine”!