“No story, written or unwritten, is static. Left abandoned too long and given the right stimulation, a book goes wrong in the head. It is a story’s natural ambition to wake up and start telling itself to the world.This, of course, is a buggered pain in the arse.”Claire Hadley is a librarian in the Unwritten Wing of Hell’s Library, where books that have never been written find their resting place. Claire and her assistant, an ex-muse Brevity, do their best to keep everything in order, but sometimes all Hell breaks loose (yes, pun intended). Sometimes unwritten books get restless and wake up, hoping to make themselves spring into existence.Add to it an Arcanist demon, an awoken book who is also an (anti)hero, an ex-teenager brand-new neurotic demon courier, a couple of angels, and the bureaucratic Good-Omens-esque structure of Heaven and Hell (plus a side trip to Valhalla - just as awesome of a place as one would expect), and a very powerful McGuffin to keep things in motion - and you have a very entertaining story on your hands.  “Hell had a pet gargoyle. Ravens fought like warriors. Books bled ink. And dead bodies stank, even in Hell.”Reading it, I could not escape the feeling that the author had a lot of fun writing it. All the humor and irreverence shine through the pages. The ragtag bunch of characters (“the woman accompanied by a muse, two demons, and Prince Charming”) is fun to follow on their adventures through the realms of afterlife and reality. There is a librarians duel using quotations, for Library’s sake! But then a healthy dose of seriousness tends to be injected here and there - to bring a touch of humanity and heartbreak and pathos to keep the story on track and allow the characters to grow and develop their (anti)hero selves. “How much easier it would be if everyone knew their role: the hero, the sidekick, the villain. Our books would be neater and our souls less frayed. But whether you have blood or ink, no one's story is that simple.”Is definitely not a perfect book. But the flaws did not get in the way of the enjoyment and the admiration of the creativity, so I’m happy to let those slide. I am very glad this book got written and was not consigned to Hell’s Library Unfinished Wing.“And here’s how you make a story: Soak a life in mortality. Scrape the soul.”Easy 4 stars.