So um,,,I have no idea why this series is well-loved. This book is a basic mix of HP and every YA that was popular at the time this was released, and it’s not good. At ALL. There’s a circle in my personal hell for middle grade books that think their readers stupid, and I’m shoving Keeper of the Lost Cities right in. No regrets. This book did a 180 for me one third in. The beginning isn’t all bad, it introduces the main character, the light-leaping magic and the elven cities made of crystals. That world building kind of charmed me. Sure, the writing felt rushed and chunky from the very first page, as if descriptions and part of the narration were missing, but I was able to push that in the back of my mind and enjoy what I had. Until more things started to show up. First of all, as soon as Sophie sees a cute boy she immediately thinks he’s handsome, she develops an instant crush and tries to impress him. It happens with Fitz before they have even exchanged a couple of words, it happens with Keefe, it happens with others. But she denies it. On the other side, every boy at school is also in love with her and only her. She’s not like other girls. The school teenagey drama was already as cliche as it could be without these stupid crushes and I would have loved it if the author had focused her energies on making a better plot and world for the book instead of putting the drama in the foreground.The plot is laughable, like many of the details of the world building after that first shiny impact. It’s all over the place and it kind of starts only near the end when you don’t care about it anymore. Plus, it was sooo convenient. Meet Sophie, the most special of the special snowflakes! All the unusual powers are hers, and she wants you to think she’s worried that the other elves will think her a freak because of them. Oh, cut the crap. She loves the attention and you can see that miles away. She knows the right stuff at the right moment just because, she can teleport with amazing concentration no one has, she has the best telepathy talent and no one can read her mind, she has super psychokinetic powers and she’s better than elves who have studied at the school for years. She’s also modest and kind and can’t cheat at school without her self-sabotaging and telling the teacher. Oh, what a special elf she is.I can’t believe I didn’t even get to experience the classes at school. What’s the point of a book about a kid going to a magic school if it doesn’t show what she’s studying? Honestly, this was the proof I needed to confirm that the world building sits on top of a shaking ladder. The author took part of the HP world and made it quirkier, but didn’t think of making rules for it to make it believable. Quirkier is key word: if you want an example of what I’m talking about, the kids at school have to lick a panel next to their locker to open it because it needs their DNA. What the actual... LOL.The author didn’t even try to hide the fact that she was taking stuff from Harry Potter. Cases in which it’s very noticeable include: - the alchemy teacher (Snape), who’s the one every kid hates and the one teacher who hates Sophie because she can’t do alchemy- Stina (Draco Malfoy), a girl with two goons who hates Sophie and wants her to fail at everything- the different collectible pins kids get from a specific type of candy (chocolate frogs). I can’t deny I thought I hit jackpot with this book at the beginning. My plan was to binge a good middle grade series, but I’m going to have to look somewhere else.