“Happy endings can be caught, but they are difficult to hold on to. They are dreams that want to escape the night. They are treasures with wings.”I loved this book so much! I'm obsessed with this book! This was such a brilliant and heartbreaking young adult fantasy about love, betrayal, magic, loss and finding true love. This book follows Evangeline and Jacks as they try to break a curse, face new enemies and unlock a powerful magic. I was completely immersed in this beautiful book from the first page. The pacing was perfect and the plot was so interesting. There were so many plot twists and betrayals that I didn't expect. I loved the fairy tale and fantasy elements including princes, princesses, curses, vampires, little dragons and more. The writing was so beautiful and descriptive. The descriptions of food and clothing made me feel like I was living in the world the author created. "She believed that everyone's life was like a story with an ending that was not yet written, and therefore everyone's future held infinite possibilities."Evangeline- I love Evangeline so much! She is resilient, kind, loving, brave, and tenacious. I can relate to her so much, similar to her I see the good in everyone and I enjoy helping others. I love how strong Evangeline is, she never gives up and she is so kind. She is also relatable since she makes mistakes and she has conflicting feelings. Evangeline's character development was amazing, she has grown a great deal and I loved seeing all the sides of her. "I merely like the thought that I torment you as much as you torment me."Jacks- I'm even more in love with Jacks in this book! He is charming, very handsome, unreliable, mysterious, witty, and he is also protective of Evangeline. Jacks has made many mistakes and is not the hero, but he has also protected Evangeline and saved her many times. I love that his character is not black and white, he is complex which makes him even more relatable. Jacks' character development was excellent, I loved seeing a softer side of him and seeing him care for Evangeline. The side characters were interesting and complex as well. I really liked LaLa, she is sweet, passionate, helpful, but she has made mistakes and I has a darker side. I have mixed feelings for Chaos, on one hand he is interesting and a complicated character, who had a dark past, but on the other hand I didn't like how he treated Evangeline.The romance between Evangeline and Jack was so good, I loved that they saved each other and were protective of each other. Their relationship was also complicated and messy at times, but made it relatable. The banter between Evangeline and Jacks was amazing! The chemistry and sexual tension between the two main characters was so good! There were a few scenes that made me smile and laugh, but most of the romantic scenes made me sad and heartbroken.The ending was so sad and heartbreaking. I cried so much at the end and I don't know when I'm going to recover from the ending. I was hoping that Evangeline and Jacks would get the happy ending that they deserved and it broke my heart that they didn't. I can't wait to read the next book. I recommend this book to anyone who loves young adult fantasy, romance, great characters, and excellent writing.