Release the gowns.The name Kiera Cass is synonymous with young adult, instant love, cliche storylines and of course ballgowns. Her Selection series covers are absolutely stunning and considering the predicament her protagonist America finds herself in, are well suited to the storyline and a great representation. Her novels are perfect for early teen readers who love a fairytale romance. The Siren on the other hand managed to weave underwater ballgowns into the storyline and although I enjoyed it sporadically despite my rating, it really wasn't for me.The storyline follows our protagonist Kahlen, pronounced Kaylynn according to Kiera Cass' Tumblr page. Kahlen was once a wealthy society girl, traveling the open seas with her parents when tragedy strikes. While those around her have perished, Kahlen is offered a lifeline. To join the sisterhood of singing Sirens or join her parents on the ocean floor. She wants to live and tentatively accepts the deal.Fast forward eighty years and Kahlen is now a Siren, immortal and only twenty years from completing her role until another takes her place. Along with her sisters in Elizabeth, Miaka and the soon to be departed Aisling, Kahlen serves the Ocean in an emotional contract which sees her sing to to feed her thirst for human life. The Ocean is portrayed as an energy who owns the life of each Siren until her time of servitude is over. She's possessive and continues to brainwash her possessions that they are her property. Although ruling with with a firm and controlling hand, She is passive aggressive and uses the motion of Her waves to caress her Sirens to soothe them in their time of need.The Ocean has now become a third party in the strangest love triangle I've come across.Akinli is a quiet and intelligent college student, meeting Kahlen in the student library in which he works. Apart from a name that sounds more like a cocktail, he's actually the only likable character The Siren has to offer. Like her sisters, Kahlen is mute. She communicates using sign language for the fear of her musical voice luring others to their death. Of course Akinli finds this endearing and cake baking ensues.Good times kids. Good times.Alas, their relationship can never be and Kahlen leaves behind a heartbroken Akinli to devote herself to the Ocean once more. Absence really does make the heart grow fonder and it isn't long until Kahlen wants to return, confiding in her sisters about the absence of love of her life that is slowly destroying her spirit. If she returns to Miami, the Ocean will surely destroy the sea fairing Akinli as punishment, ensuring She has Kahlen's devotion.That's quite the dilemma Kahlen.What did surprise me is that The Siren isn't a new release, but a polished version of an earlier release. It had potential, but I feel the finer details of the storyline is what let The Siren down. The mythology behind the Sirens felt flimsy. Mythical beings that were said to have lured men to their deaths, their willpower stripped away and leaving girls who lacked both personality and distinguishing traits. The romance soon became the focal point of the storyline and rather than world building or introducing much needed mythology while the young loves were separated, what I found was little more than teen angst and pining away for a boy she has only just met.#typicalcassThe overall storyline had a wonderful premise, a mythical and immortal being, a forbidden romance and obstacles to overcome. But the lack of world building, little to no character development felt as though it could have been mistaken for satire. For all it's faults and there were many many faults, I still couldn't put it down.