‘Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle’ and seven and half reasons to love this book making it a 5-star read overall. First a short summary of the plot.The PlotEvelyn Hardcastle will die every night until her killer is identified. Aiden's challenge is that he has only eight attempts to succeed in solving the riddle, or the mission is handed to someone else. To further complicate matters, Aiden will wake up every morning in the body of a different guest, every day something changes, every day new evidence, and every day new stories and secrets are revealed. However, the killer is one of them but many have motive and opportunity. So who is going to kill Evelyn Hardcastle?Now 7½ Reasons to love this book 1.	A unique and exceptionally imaginative story and a definite must if you love crime / thrillers but want something different.2.	An intelligent and complex plot, that provides the thrill and suspense from start to finish that will keep the reader totally absorbed and guessing. A real page turner. 3.	The reader can relax and enjoy the story and outcome. Alternatively, for puzzle lovers like me, you are invited to play your part and engage with this mind bender to solve the riddle, as the new, repetitive, and less obvious clues, are offered each day. Forget your sudoku or crosswords, this puzzle surpasses the lot and was the standout in the book. A brilliant mind bender. However, keep track of the days because I found myself having to go back until I worked out the structure of the book.4.	I do love a book that is multi-layered, with lots of side stories that come together over the course of the story.5.	Despite the time loop, the story never felt repetitive. I am not into time travel so much or ‘Groundhog Day’, but this was a much better version of this concept.6.	The writing style was perfect. Short and sharp which is just what’s needed because there was so much to keep track off with new clues presented each day.7.	The book was also appropriately themed with greed, love, lust, betrayal, alcoholism, infidelity playing into the plot and the characters. Perfect and relevant and finally ‘the half’ goes for the characterisation 7.5 We were presented with such a huge array of interesting but unlikeable characters. However, although they all added to the story, I never felt any deep connection to any of the characters. Hence the 7½ reasons Highly recommended if you like crime / thriller and whodunnit novels with a twist, especially if you love mind benders and puzzles. Superb, ingenious, and intelligent but takes effort from the reader.