“It’s not always the truth that survives, but the stories we wish to believe. The legends lie. They smooth over imperfections to tell a good tale, or to instruct us how we should behave, or to assign glory to victors and shame those who falter. Perhaps there were some in Sparta who embodied those myths. Perhaps. But how we are remembered is less important than what we do now.” Why do I love Greek Mythology so much? This was such an interesting take on the myths everyone knows about. I've read quite a few books focusing on mythology, obviously, but never one that was so ambitious and somehow Alexandra Bracken made it all work. Every seven years, the Agon begins. To punish them for their past rebellion, Zeus forces nine Greek gods to walk on Earth as mortals while the descendants of ancient bloodlines hunt them, eager to clain their power and immortality as their own. Lore Perseous has long abandoned the Agon after the murder of her family. For years she has pushed away the taught of getting revenge on the god, formely man, who is responsable for their deaths. But as the next hunt begins in New York, Lore is seeked out by two participants: Castor, her childhood friend who she believed dead and a wounded Athena, one of the last original gods still alive. The goddess offers an aliance against their mutual enemy and the hope of leaving the Agon forever, but their power might not be enough to defeat the new god. I've read this book a few months ago and as much as I liked it then, I've come to realise that it's a bit forgettable. The overall story didn't really have any lasting impact on me. It's not a bad book since I did rate it 4 stars and I really liked it when I finished it, but I jsut wish it stuck more with me than it actually did. I'm a sucker for Greek Mythology and when I read the sypnopsis and saw the author talking about it on Instagram I knew I had to pick it up. I was not disappointed on that aspect. Bracken put a lot of work in the research so she could make everything work out and the mythology geek in me was so happy seeing everything, seeing the way she played with all myths I knew. One interesting thing in this one is that Athena is actually one of the main characters. I did read books with gods as main characters *cough * *cough * Lore Olympus and A Touch of Darkness *cough * but none were really as good at this and actually made her an intriguing character. The characters were okay. You did root for them, but the thing is you never really formed a connetion with them. When reading I like to feel for the characters, to connect with them. I love stories with well fleshed out characters, but in here there wasn't really enough focus on how well they are developed. Lore was a cool main character but she didn't have anything unique to her. Just another YA main character that I've read hundreds of before. I'm sorry to say that. She was better than more than half of those girls, but that does not change the fact I want something new. I really liked Castor, but I cannot say I remember much about him at this point to be able to specifically say what I did like about him. Main characters aside, we did get a few interesting side characters, but I'm sorry to say that I do not remember their names. Just because I forgot tehir names does not make them bad characters. It's just me being horrible with names. “I was born knowing how to do three things - how to breathe, how to dream, and how to love you.” The romance was really cute. I always like the say that I love enemies to lovers, but honestly childhood friends it lovers can be just as good if done right. I need to read more books with this troupe because I never realised how much I actually like it. We also got queer romance between two side characters which I was here for it, but sadly we didn't get much about it. Let me tell you one thing. This book is fast paced. Want an easy read? Go for this one. The plot moves pretty fast and I cannot say I was bored for one bit. I needed the answers and I really wanted to know how everything will wrap up. I'm not sure how long it took me to finish this novel but I didn't take me that long for a 500 page book. The ending was interesting. I didn't really knew what direction is going to take and how everything will be resolved so I was very intrigued to see that. One complaint I have is that the book ended a bit abrupt. I would have liked to see more of the aftermath and how everyone was doing instead of being done with the book. Just an epilogue there or something. I knew Alexandra Bracken will not disappoint as this is not my first book by her. If you love mythology as much as I do, give this book a shot. It's an easy read that anyone could find enjoyable. There are still books by this author I haven't read so after reading this one and remembering how good her books can be, I plan to read more of her novels in the future. “When we can't change the past, the only thing left is to move forward.”