okay i have no clue how im going to structure this review, so i apologize in advance for any chaos.trigger warnings: sexual assualt, rape (a very present theme in this book), abuse, death, violence, gore*bear with me, this synopsis is terrible, but the plot is hard to explain* this book follows our main character, lore, who is a part of these like greek bloodline thingys that hunt the gods when they come down to earth as mortals for seven days to be killed by descendants of greek heroes. anyways like 10 years ago lore's family was killed and she was all like "nah id prefer not to die, im out" so shes not involved with this hunt for gods anymore but then stuff happens and she gets thrown back into the world. yall im so sorry that was the worst plot explanation ive ever given. but one of my new years resolutions is to not stress over reviews so whatever. i do this for me, and for the kind people who enjoy my reviews. theyre not gonna be perfect, but i try my best. anyways moving on.lore looked so promising! a greek mythology book that takes place in new york? sounds like my personal heaven. unfortunately, this book had so many flaws that i genuinely just could not overlook, and my overall enjoyment of the novel was not as high as i had hoped it would be.before i start ranting, i do have a few things that i really enjoyed about this book, and felt like should be mentioned.first of all, someone needs to go pat Alexandra Bracken on the back for her originality. a big issue in young adult fantasy, is reused tropes and plots. there are so many YA fantasy books out there, that its hard to write a book that hasnt already been written. i know many people will see greek mythology and think "percy jackson rip-off!!!" which, i personally think, is totally unfair. (youll catch me being the biggest pjo stan, but not every greek mythology book is copying it) no one calls out authors when they use fae or witches or any other popular tropes or characters in their books, why should it be different now? i had many many issues with the plot and pacing of this book, but the general concept was so unique and had loads of potential.another thing that was great about this story was the antagonist plotline. i DESPISE books with weak villains, but i didnt feel that at all. there were a few antagonists in this story, but theres one in particular who, i felt, was written very well.there was only one other thing that i liked in this book, and that was the urban fantasy aspect. if you know me at all, you would know that new york is literally my favorite place on earth. like actually. i spend an unhealthy amount of time wishing i was in new york. so, obviously, when i learned this book took place in new york city, i was jumping for joy. i was disappointed by many things in this book, but definitely not by the nyc parts. the way the storyline fit into the city and its people was awesome, and i really appreciated that the main character had such a deep love for her city. because, relatable. (i meant that its relatable in the sense that i love nyc, not my own city. i live in dc. i used to think it was cool. then the capitol got stormed and i could barely leave the house.)ALRIGHTY TIME FOR THE FUN STUFF! ill split this into like four parts to make sure i can cover everything. characters, plot, romance, writing.so i guess that means ill start with characters. im not gonna do my character analysis that i would usually do for each character, because honestly i felt detached from them all. not one of the characters in this book had consistent personalities. the love interest was all over the place, the main character started out as this bad-ass fist fighter and then turned out to be annoying, and the side characters had no depth. also, i have a question. were these characters supposed to be morally grey? because theyre not. at all. they were literally the OPPOSITE of morally grey and it got very annoying, very fast. theres nothing wrong with book characters that are good people (i do love my comfort characters, who are also murderers, but thats besides the point), but they have to have their flaws yaknow? each of these characters felt way too perfect.overall i felt absolutely nothing for any of these characters and could care less what happened to them.next, plot.ask me to explain what actually happened in this book. i think we can all tell from my synopsis that i really didnt get the story. i truly believe that this plot had so much potential, but the execution was awful.the worldbuilding was horrendous. im not exaggerating. im a mythology nerd. I UNDERSTAND GREEK MYTHOLOGY. SO THEN WHY WAS THIS SO HARD TO FOLLOW?!?!? i feel so bad for anyone who read this book without any background knowledge, because i barely understood it. at the beginning of the book, the bloodlines that are trying to kill the gods were explained (in a very info-dumpy way) and then its like the author was just like "oh! well i explained it once! theyll get it now." NO NO NO NO NO. I WAS SO LOST DURING EVERY PART OF THIS BOOK. AND I SWEAR IM NOT STUPID. I UNDERSTOOD House of Earth and Blood AND THAT BOOK WAS LIKE INFO DUMP HEAVEN. but yeah, i would have appreciated a lot more explanation.the other thing about the plot was that it was so fast moving, that it became boring. that statement really doesnt make much sense, but i can explain it. i hate slow books right? like if theres no action or plot then ill throw the book across the room and leave. this book was definitely not slow, but it always had something going on, to the point where i felt no suspense. all 400 pages of this book read like a climax, which ended up making the actual climax of the story underwhelming.ill say it again, THIS PLOT HAD SO MUCH POTENTIAL. WHY COULDNT IT HAVE BEEN DONE BETTER?!?!?!now ill talk about writing.i dont have anything negative to say about this books writing, but i dont have anything positive to say either. it was nothing special. honestly, it was just insanely average. there were definitely times that the things that characters said felt so unnecessarily preachy. like there are quotes from this book that sound something straight out of a self help book.for example:"you have to start thinking about your future, otherwise your past is always going to hold you back."its not that big of a deal, but i hate those quotes that were so clearly created for the sole purpose of sounding "deep."the last thing ill discuss is the romance.the main romance in this book was terrible. there was a side romance that i thought was cute but the romance that was really focused on was atrocious. and dont even get me started on the love interest.actually, do get me started. because i am pissed. this book was marketed to me as a "feminist take on greek mythology." and i was like, "sick. lets go murder those misogynistic gods." the actual narrative on sexism in greek mythology was done pretty well in my opinion. BUT THEN THIS "feminist novel" JUST HAD TO GO AND HAVE A SEXIST LOVE INTEREST. castor, the love interest, didnt do anything obviously sexist. he didnt make any misogynistic jokes or anything, BUT THERE WERE STILL SO MANY DOUBLE STANDARDS THAT HE INCITED.there was a point in the book where the MC starts killing some people blah blah, and castors all like "this isnt you lore. youre better than this. dont kill people." which is kinda annoying but like if you wanna be the ethics police, than sure, go be the ethics police. BUT THEN LATER IN THE BOOK, LORE'S IN DANGER AND GETS HURT, AND OF COURSE CASTOR, BEING THE Possessive Male Love Interest™ he is, hes all like "ill kill them." excuse me castor? i thought that killing was wrong? youre allowed to murder anyone who hurts your beloved crush, but said beloved crush cannot take revenge on the people who have caused her harm.you cant claim to be a feminist novel and then have an important character be sexist. thats not how it works.okay so thats all folks, i hope you enjoyed my review, because its kinda a mess. the bottom line is, if this book was on your most anticipated releases list, cross it off. or dont. who knows, maybe youll love it, but i definitely didnt.pre-review:don’t you just love it when one of your most anticipated releases of the year is not that good? anyways i’m still debating about my star rating. probably two stars. maybeee three. i’ll think about it. rtc.pre-read:ITS HERE ITS HERE ITS HERE!! i’m gonna try to start this tomorrow after i finish tog.ahhh my pre-order of this book arrives tomorrow 😚😚