Larkwood has filled The Unspoken Name with some absolutely amazing stuff and the star of the show is Csorwe, a teenage Orc girl raised from birth to be a sacrificial virgin for a god who dwells in a deep cave among revenants (the undead). On almost a lark at the moment she alone enters the dark cave as the "chosen bride" of the Unspoken one, she runs off with a visiting wizard and becomes his apprentice for years on end. But the mountain where the monastery is happens to be but a small corner of the universe of this book. As Csorwe finds out, there are endless worlds, each filled with its own magic, it's own gods, and its own ancient ruins. To traverse between worlds, one must traverse the Maze of Echoes. Some of these worlds are described in intricate detail and the writing is poetic when describing these ancient worlds and the buried powers within. And, of course, there is the quest for the Holy Grail, here referred to as the Reliquary, an ancient tool of vast magical power. The story is beset with giant serpents, walking dead men, wizards and priestesses wielding spells, and more. Indeed, when Csorwe meets the giant serpent, it almost Bilbo word dueling with the dragon Smaug. It would have been interesting had more attention been paid to the fact the main character was a gray-skinned, Tusked, Orc. Other than an early allusion to a tusk being broken, the fact of her being an orc is rarely mentioned and seemingly not pertinent. Corswe seems for the most part basically a teenage apprentice, not an orc and lacked that otherness a focus on orc-hood would've brought. Although there is a pronunciation guide at the beginning, the names of people and places in this book were nearly impossible to pronounce as one reads through it. The names may have added authenticity but ended up detracting from smooth reading. All in all, there were some great concepts at the heart of this fantasy, but as a reader one simply never fully entered this world and became fully immersed in it.