What an unexpectedly wonderful book.This is a multiverse-based fantasy book with multiple cross-universe sentient species, magic, technology, gods and monsters. Csorwe is a young female Oshaaru, grey-skinned with gold eyes and tusks, and is a Chosen Bride of the Unspoken, which leaves her revered and with the gift of prophecy, but doomed to be sacrificed to her god at fourteen. Sethennai, a mage from a different world and a different species intervenes in her sacrifice, giving her a different path in his service. As she grows she receives education and training as a powerful and clever operative for Sethennai in an effort to take back the mage's lost position as Chancellor in his home plane and to acquire a powerful magic item. But her loyalty to her master is tested with her rivalry with another of Sethennai's henchmen and a strong attraction to Shuthmilli, a mage of the Qarsazh who has a horrible fate in store for her.The setting is enormous: a multiverse with divinities, populous planes and dying ones and strange magics and power everywhere, but the story is actually a very tightly focused drama around its main players. Sethennai's quest for power is a long and patient one, and a key question that the book is concerned with is what that power is for and how it can be used. But the central story is about Csorwe and her fellow henchman Talasseres Charossa and their jockeying for attention from their master Sethennai. This is illuminated by Sethennai's relationship with fellow mage Oranna who he considers something of an equal, and his total indifference to Shuthmilli.Shuthmilli also shines a spotlight on Csorwe's childhood. Csorwe was brought up to be a willing sacrifice, and Shuthmilli's adulthood is no different albeit with an arguably even more horrible outcome. The relationship between them is even sweeter because of this parallel.I'm very much looking forward to more in this series.---Reread in February 2022 prior to reading The Thousand Eyes. I think this holds up well and I enjoyed it just as much the second time through.