Many other writers have done urban fantasy, re-envisioning modern metropolises hiding a magical underbelly co-existing alongside the modern technological veneer: JK Rowling and the Harry Potter novels, Neil Gaiman and American Gods, Charles de Lint and his Newford novels. All of that is like Campari next to Miéville’s hard 100-year old whiskey. He ratchets up the weirdness, twists it and integrates it into modernity in a way that’s well… let’s just say that if Kraken were to get into a celebrity death match with American Gods, American Gods would wet its little diapers. He has a strike of familiars against their magical masters; he has people so desperate for someone to take over their lives they literally become tools for a gang lord; teleportation is the dismantling of the body, killing it, and reassembling a new life with the same memories elsewhere—the teleporter had me squeeing in glee at the notion of his haunting by the hundreds of his former ghost selves; a member of the magic police assembles a posse of dematerialised police officers from fragments of ghosts and 70’s police shows… Miéville just throws idea after idea like this at you, leaving you gasping for breath. But the best bit, the best bit is his reworking of the Christian mythos in the most subversive way I have ever seen. And it’s not just the fact of the apocalypse, that’s just the itty-bitty cherry on the cake. And he does this in a way that’s not obvious, and that’s not join-the-dots of the Christ narrative. Hell, maybe it’s all just in my head, but if it is that’s okay, cause I’m getting such a squee-high of a rush from the thought. Okay, now we enter spoiler territory, and if you want to just enjoy the sheer mad rush of this book for itself, STOP READING NOW!! Go read the book, and come back to read this review and tell me if you think I'm wrong. Okay, you were warned. The rest of this review will discuss the whole story, right up to the ending. What elements do we have?We have the villains, Goss, Subby and Tattoo. Goss and Subby, as nasty and as evil a pair as you can imagine, have cropped up in time periodically for centuries. This time round they are working for Tattoo, a man literally transformed into a tattoo on some poor sod’s back. Goss and Subby are father and son, while Tattoo is in a sense a disembodied spirit. Father, son and holy ghost? We have a Paul that appears in the last part of the book, a Paul that—while formerly (and formally) a persecutor of our heroes—has a sudden "conversion" to become a critical helper. Billy Harrow, our hero, comes into his powers because it is thought that he was a test-tube baby: a somewhat spurious “virgin” birth. Our other hero, Dane, is crucified on a Nazi swastika and is brought back to life by the powers of that very swastika. Billy himself makes the ultimate sacrifice by having himself teleported (thus dying and coming back to life) into the final confrontation with the real villain. But before that, Billy has to confront Grisamentum in a showdown that all about words. Yep, words, as in John 1:1, “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.” Words, concepts are all that stand between the world and its destruction. And finally, finally, in the final absolute confrontation, who do we have but a villain who wants to erase the idea of evolution, who wants to return the world to that blessed land of ignorance when science hadn’t messed up the whole idea of god. The thing is, it’s not evident that this is indeed what Miéville intended. To his eternal credit, he doesn’t bang you on the head with it. I tend to believe that this number of “fortuitous coincidences” in the elements that make up the book can’t be unintentional, but hey, that’s just me. But it gives this whole deep undercurrent of meaning swirling beneath, out of direct sight, like the undertow from the wake of a kraken swimming hidden in the depth of meaning. Just go with it, go with it and let it drag you down down down into the dark and the deep. You'll be glad you did. What Others ThoughtSF Reviews: There is both satire and parody here, the former dissecting both apocalyptic religious mania and the inability of conventional authority to protect us in any meaningful way from unknown threats in a post-post-terrorist age, and the latter gently ribbing SF/fantasy nerd culture, with Harry Potter, X-Files and especially Star Trek good-naturedly taking the piss. Here is a world where a realm of magic lurks just beyond a threshold, invisible to us muggles, where unionized familiars picket like British Rail, disembodied ancient spirits flit from statue to statue, and the Metropolitan Police have a special special branch to deal with paranormal threats. And at the center of it all, as in almost every Miéville story, is a city, the city, the phantasmagoric London of history and myth. Here it literally lives and breathes. London has its own sympathetic magicians, the Londonmancers, who can reshape its very substance. There's a scene where one of them cracks open the asphalt and reads the bloody entrails beneath the street. The portents are not good… I admit that when Miéville's not on his game, the sort of thing can get self-indulgent and tiresome, as it did for me in Iron Council and the novella "The Tain". In Kraken, Miéville's brought his A-game. As excessive and wrought as the plot seems to be, he actually always has it firmly in hand. Attentive readers should never find themselves flailing in confusion, even if, at 500 pages, the book flirts with overlength. Next to Un Lun Dun, this is the closest the New Weird has ever come to producing pure blockbuster popcorn entertainment. The Independent: Miéville's landscape is a London not hidden beneath the streets, but wedged in alongside ours—where high-rise flats hide magic-for-hire and Limehouse garages are workshops for converting the unwilling into something rather horrible indeed. This is a magical realm formed—often literally—from the detritus of the modern metropolis. The author knows the value of the uncanny, and often his slights revolve around only the faintest of twists on the familiar; commuters in motorcycle helmets are transformed into portents of menace, while magical familiars are formed from masonry and scraps of discarded medical matter. As with the best fantastic fiction, after reading, the world around us is transformed… Simultaneously reverent and brimming with punky attitude, Kraken proves Miéville is ever forging new ground, even when walking the same grey pavements as his readers.