4.5 stars
"I can't believe this is happening. I can't fight like this, or start a revolution, or be a queen. I can't do anything like this. I'm literally broken."Iko settled a hand on Cinder's shoulder. "Yeah, but broken isn't the same as unfixable."
Winter isn't perfect. Marissa Meyer has some very big shoes to fill. Expectations are high, fans are passionate... but I do feel she left us with a largely satisfying ending.I know what a lot of non-readers are wondering: does it drag? Surprisingly, no. At 800+ pages, it starts fast and pulls no punches. Admittedly, it slows near the middle, but nowhere near enough to make me want to skip or put down the book.Some reviewers were upset with the repetition. Characters get captured, rescued, separated, then rinse and repeat. I disagree it isn't necessary. A revolution isn't easy and Meyer portrays the confusion and frustration nicely. What I think is unnecessary is what happens to Wolf after he's captured in the latter half. Why? Why does it happen? It doesn't affect his relationship with Scarlet or his personality. My guess—and I'm pretty sure I'm right—is Meyer needed make some waves for the Scarlet/Wolf ship. Everyone else had their problems: Kai is supposed to marry Levana; Thorne and Cress are caught in that adorable, frustrating period of does-he-or-she-like-me?; and Winter is a freaking princess while Jacin is a lowly guard. A lot of pressure for nothing.So, new characters: 
[Jacin:] "She wants to kill you, Princess."Winter shivered, first with the intensity of his words, and second with their meaning. She supposed such a declaration would have shocked her, but ever since Levana had given her these scars, she had been expecting this."
Winter is named after the character, but it isn't so much her story as it is Cinder's. But it's a minor annoyance. We knew from day one it was Cinder's story and about Cinder taking her rightful throne as Queen Serenity/Sailor Moon. Oops, I mean, Queen of Luna.See, I'm not always a nitpicking bitch queen.What we do see of Winter is fascinating. She's a complex character, far more morally ambiguous than Cinder is. You don't see it at first because she's sweet and kind and a little mad from Lunar sickness (Winter refuses to use her power and it slowly drives her crazy), but she knows she's gorgeous and uses it to manipulate people sometimes. What can I say? I'm a sucker for a femme fatale.Her portrayal of mental illness is intriguing.
"You want me to be fixed, don't you?"Jacin drew back, as if she'd thrown something at him. "You're not broken."
It reminds me of Leah Raeder's style. Winter's madness is a part of her, no matter how others deny it. You are not your mental illness. I stay by that one hundred percent. But it's some of you. One percent or seventy, it affects your daily life and personality. As long as you don't let it win.Got off-topic a bit there. I'm amazed Marissa can juggle so many POVs, each with their own distinctive voice. I didn't count, but I'm pretty sure there's at least ten. Ten. Most writers can barely handle two. I never confuse Cress for Cinder, or Kai for Wolf. That's how good she is.Cress and Thorne's relationship could have been developed better. I understand why Cress likes him, but not so much Thorne. A little more leading-up scenes and it'd be perfect.Am I the only one who was sad Levana died? I know she's a power-hungry bitch, but damn. Girl had a hard life. I grew attached to her in Fairest.A stunning conclusion to an amazing series. So when does Heartless come out?Cover reveal: Slightly underwhelmed with the cover. I expected it to be darker, like an apple dripping blood or something. 8 more months!Pre-review: Holy crap, 800 pages? What is this, a Stephen King novel?