“Even in the Future the Story Begins with Once Upon a Time.”

Once Upon a Time, there was a lonely girl who dreamed too much. Her name was Katerina. She used to gaze at the sky and observe the faint light of the moon. One night, she watched a falling star and made a wish. She wished that she would belong. Escape. Travel. Feel. Little did she know that her heart's desire was about to be granted. For when the star landed on Earth, it took a woman's form. In some stories they call her the fairy god-mother. In this one, they call her Marissa Meyer. 

“She's our princess. And she's coming home.”

Marissa Meyer searched for the best way to make wishes come true, but the answer was simple. Her words, her words would be a gift to mankind. She chose to narrate the classic tales everyone loved from a different angle, adding space and androids and plagues and monsters. Adding diverse heroes and heroines, characters of different color and weight and height and backround. Adding strong friendships, sweet romances, vivid adventuress, loathsome villains and a handful of stardust. And she created The Lunar Chronicles. She created Winter. 

“Invade Luna. Start a rebellion. End a war.”

Katerina found in Winter everything she ever wanted. She read about Snow White, who was beautiful and kind, crazy and delusional, who hallucinated and sang eerie songs, who was in love with her best friend and guard. She read about Cinder, who tried to be brave and make difficult desicions that would result in sacrifices and bloodbath in order to take her throne back. About Scarlet, fierce and bold and determined Scarlet, who felt that she didn't fit in until she found her home in the face of a predator, a killer. About Cress, who dreamed about happily ever afters and pretended she was a hero from a movie when she was afraid, and didn't realize how valuable she was. These four girls were different, but were bound together by a common goal and a friendship that didn't know planets and social status.

“Help me. Fight for me. And I will be the first ruler in the history of Luna who will also fight for you.”

She also read about Kai, who was smart and selfless and put the welfare of his people above his own happiness. About Wolf, who was savage and murderous but also a soft cupcake who fought for his humanity. About Thorne, who was funny and cocky and didn't believe he was a hero until a strange girl turned his world upside down with her faith in him. About Jacin, who was intimidating and cold, eager to do anything for his princess. Four boys, four girls and one android. Katerina loved them all, for their strangeness and their flaws, their loyalty and their hearts. Her own heart broke when they were seperated, when they were forced to do terrible things or went through terrible things. She shed tears of joy and tears of sadness.She laughed until her stomach hurt.

“Thorne scoffed. “Careful is my middle name. Right after Suave and Daring.”“Do you even know what you're saying half the time?” asked Cinder.” 

She followed them through riots and executions, battles and toe-curling kisses, powerful declarations and hilarious banters. She did find Winter a little long, but stars above! a part of her didn't want it to end. She hated goodbyes.

“They're the first crew I've ever had and most of them even call me Captain. I'm going to miss them.”

Once Upon a Time, Katerina finished Winter. She held the book against her heart and looked at the sky. There it was. A Rampion, whose passengers were a mechanic and an emperor, a farmer and a soldier, a hacker and a smuggler, a princess and a guard. They looked down and smiled at her. She smiled back. She was not alone.✨ Cinder review✨ Scarlet review✨ Cress review