7/21/18 update: The Tea Dragon Society is the winner of the 2018 Eisner Award for Best Publication for kids 9-12! Yay, Katie O'Neill!12/14/17: I admit I have not yet read Princess Princess Ever After, also from Katie O’Neill (I know! Where was I when the fairy dust was handed out?!). But I am on the bandwagon at last, following the story of blacksmith apprentice Greta in the world of tea dragons (What do you mean you don’t know what a tea dragon is?!). Well, you like tea parties, right?! And you like dragons, right? so, perfect, there are certain dragons, tea dragons, from which you get tea dragon tea leaves (What?! You can’t be serious! You aren’t going to tell me you don’t know where tea dragon leaves come from?! From the horns and antlers, silly, where else, duh??!)Anyhow, Greta has this like friend, Minette, and they are very different but they are still good friends, and there’s this like tea dragon shop owned by these two gay guys Hesekiel and Erik. Yes, of COURSE you can form your own Tea Dragon Society—ooooooh!—with all your friends, yay! (This is ALL about the queering of the fairy tale, kids, with disabilities, colors, and sexual orientations.) And ev’ry illustration is A-DOR-A-BLE, ‘course! And I know what you’re thinking: Might Greta and Minette be more than friends, like Hesekiel and Erik!? Ooooh! We’ll just have to wait and see!Blacksmiths? My grandfather, whose last name was Kuyper (or Cooper, or metal-worker) was a blacksmith, for a time, so I was in from page one! Anyway, in this book, blacksmiths were once as important as magicians, as they forged swords and stuff, in the old days. So: traditions, from the Old Days, awesome!The question is: How can we hold fast to traditions (like blacksmithing and tea dragon care!) in a world that is changing SO FAST? Read on, I say! There’s not a lot of plot here, but who needs it?! There is way much energy and colors and feels and sweetness to sustain you, if you need these kinds of things, and who doesn’t?!And there’s like this cool appendix with info on tea dragon care and societies and different kinda tea dragons--like Jasmine, Peppermint or Chamomile! And the info pages are set up almost already in the form of Tea Dragon TRADING CARDS: I know! Ooooh!! Coming soon! So awesome!But seriously, I do think it is cute. I am NOT making fun of it! I have a ten-year-old daughter who loves this!! But watch out: You recall what happened when the Teletubbies came on the Scene? Watch out, world! You want a tea dragon now, too, I can definitely tell!