The supremely epic tale of the biggest Gary Stu in the entire world, filled with grammatical and punctuation errors.Fantasy and high fantasy is notorious for Gary Stus, we know that. Prime example: Harry Potter. Another example, the main character in one of my favorite HF of all time, Jorg Ancrath, by the awesome Marc Lawrence. As these examples have shown, Gary Stus are not awful. They can be amazing, the book can be immensely enjoyable.This book is not one of them.There is a way to write a Gary Stu so that a book is believable, readable. You give him a darkness. You make him flawed. You give him characteristics that are not normally enjoyed or admired. You fucking MAKE it so that we love him, despite everything he does. That's how you write good character.It is not in writing a character who is so bloody fucking perfect that he can defeat a group of men and giant dogs and shit at the age of, like...12. It is not in making him so bloody fucking awesome that he speaks with the wisdom of a 50 year old at the grand old, ripe age of 13. It is not in giving him so much fucking nobility that it would put the current Pope, Mother Theresa, Gandhi, and Tom Hiddleston to shame.This book is like Harry Potter in that we watch the main character grow, day by day by day by slow, slow, excruciating day from the time he is a young (but startlingly brilliant, introspective, and mature) child. They are also roughly the same age.9,845,412 or so pages later (when we're halfway through the book), the character is 15 and so noble it makes me throw up a little in my mouth.He has no faults.He succeeds in every fucking thing.He impresses all his masters.He excels at almost all feats. And in those in which he does not have a natural technical skill, he is merely "great." He pushes through all difficulties. He succeeds brilliantly at all his tests, all his challenges. He is the son of a brilliant, beloved battle lord. Before he is even 13, the main character's reputation for battle-hardiness and skill is known and whispered about throughout the land.Females fall for him, right and left, before his balls have even dropped and his voice has cracked.Gary-Stu-ism aside, I'm not sure if I have an older version of the book or what, but it is so filled with errors that the grammar Nazi inside me was yelling "NEIN, NEIN!!!!!"Commas. They're amazing. They're awesome. Use them. This book has the worst usage of commas I've ever encountered in any book. And I've read a shit ton of books in my life. Yes brother. No brother. Wait sister. That's just the examples I can think of off the top of my head. Atrocious. Absolutely fucking atrocious. You don't have to use commas. Use a period. I love periods. Ok, not THOSE periods, but you know what I mean. Whatever, just give me room to breathe within a sentence. Give me room to pause. It totally takes away the drama in a statement when the character speaks a paragraph without pause.