She gets to her feet and I know that I should rise as well and curtsy, but I’m frozen in place. “Some advice, little lamb? Next time you close a window, make sure it doesn’t open a trapdoor beneath your feet.”She’s halfway to the door when I find my voice. “I don’t know what I’m doing,” I admit, barely louder than a whisper.The Kaiserin hears me, though. She turns and regards me with that disconcerting, unfocused stare of hers. “You’re a lamb in the lion’s den, child. You’re surviving. Isn’t that enough?”(yes, that chocolate-covered oreo was my bookmark. and no, it didn't last long.)____Previously on: How I Met This BookI didn't know what to read so bae picked this one for me among the books I received last week. I already told him that if it's not good, he's gonna sleep on the couch. His reply was: "I just randomly picked it, you were the one who bought it and brought it home. Now go read. You know where the couch is, just in case."So, yeah... I really hope I'll end up liking it lmao____Apparently I can keep my bed, 'cause this book was pretty great.When it comes to what makes a good book a good one, I think smooth writing, relatable and morally gray characters, and a fast-paced plot are probably the three main elements that shouldn't miss, and for me, Laura Sebastian totally hit the point with this novel. The magic system and the whole story are not of the most originals, but it's fresh and action-packed enough to make you close an eye on it.Theodosia is not an easy lovable main character. She's very insecure, immature, sometimes a bit of a hypocrite, and the kind of intense that can become too much. On the other hand, I found that her insecurities and immaturity made her extremely real. I often read books about teens who are overly good and ready to sacrifice themselves for the rest of the world and, despite how good-hearted a person (fictional, mostly) might be, I see this kind of behavior as too heroic to be 100% true to the gray nature of the human being. I was glad to read about a character who was, for a change, afraid for her life and ready to be a little selfish in order to survive. There's romance, in case you're asking. There's some sort of love triangle, too. I usually get frustrated with this kind of trope, but it didn't bother me at all this time. The romance is good, it makes sense (a bit too rushed, maybe, but I learnt there's nothing slow about this book), yet I guess I didn't care much who Theo ended up with because I sort of like both boys equally (though Prinz Soren is a cat person and that means he has to be my favorite of the whole bunch) and because I was more concerned about what other madness she was being thrown into by the author. If I had to compare it to another series, it'll definitely be Falling Kindoms by Morgan Rhodes, though this one is possibly darker, has shorter chapters (bless you, LS), and it's clear that the author here cared deeply for shock value deaths/twists. Not that I'm complaining, of course, because I think that overall this was a really well done job. For people like me, who don't always have time to read and have to squeeze their reading breaks between smelly diapers and house chores, but at the same time don't want to give up to the pleasures of an intricate and entertaining plot, this is perfect because it allows you to put the book down and resume reading it without losing both the adrenaline and the threat of the story. That is, if you're able to put it down. I know sometimes I couldn't. I only have a few little 'complaints' that'll make you understand why I didn't give this book 5 full stars, despite liking it deeply:-I would have find it less cringey if the characters were at least a year older. I really don't know how to explain this but I felt that the way they speak, act and carry themselves is too mature for characters who are so young, broken and reckless. I get that a tough life makes you wise by default but we're talking about that kind of deep boldness that comes with age and that made Thora and company sometimes look like clichéd caricacatures. -I ended up loving Thora, but being inside her head all the time was a little hard. Like I said, she isn't a character you fall for instantly and for people like me who are not fond of the first person POV, having to relate on Thora's pov alone and all the time, was somehow stressful. That's it, so you see, it's really more of a personal matter than this book being somewhat faulty. Despite these little flaws, I enjoyed every second of it. Laura Sebastian is an amazingly talented author and Ash Princess is a real page-turner that definitely built up the setting for a new story and a new villain in a sequel that I honestly can't wait to read. I also can't wait to tell bae about his magical book-picking skills.Thinking about it...I should let him pick scratch cards, too, from now on..."Yana Crebesti, remember?" he says. "Will you trust me in this?""Yana Crebesti," I tell him, even as it breaks my heart.ACTUAL RATINGS 4,5/5