This dark YA fantasy is the debut novel of Laura Sebastian, it is the first of a planned trilogy. 16 year old Theodosia Houzzara has suffered the nightmare of 10 long years as a prisoner of the Kalovaxians and the tyrant King Kaiser. Her mother, the Queen, was murdered in front of her eyes when she was 6, the country was conquered, land taken and resources pillaged. Theo is shamefully known as the Ash Princess, and her people have been enslaved, any murmurs or acts that challenge the dismal misery of the Kaiser's rule results in Theo being cruelly punished, torture has left her body with a mass of scars. Theo has put up with the horror that is her life, but when she is forced into unspeakable territory by Kaiser, it is the last straw. She has had enough, there has to be more to life than this, and even though she knows she could die, she finds the backbone to resist and fight back. She is smart and intelligent, this will take her far, and she is not alone, there are others who will do anything to remove the violent oppression under which they live.Sebastian does some intricate world building, and within the kingdom there are powerful caves with magical gems, although one has to earn the ability to use the gems. Rebel leadership takes its toll on Theo, she experiences inner turmoil as to the price and consequences of her actions and decisions. It is not surprising after the life she has led that she should struggle, not to mention that she is young and facing a steep learning curve, and there are expectations of her that she has to mentally sort through. This is a story of intrigue, betrayal, gods, loss, brutal savagery, friendship, magic, war, complicated romantic entanglements and unbearable injustice. The narrative travels a well trodden path with its established fantasy tropes, but the tale is told well, well plotted and packed with twists. I found it a compelling and atmospheric read with its wide cast of characters. I should warn readers that there is abuse and rape in the novel. Many thanks to Pan MacMillan for an ARC.