So earlier this year I took a trip to the south of France, notably the Périgord, which is filled with lovely relaxed people with sun-kissed skin and floaty skirts, a nice contrast to my jumpy pasty ass (I was in the middle of an existential crisis and musing over whether or not to quit my job and become a starving artist, and The Results May Surprise You!). While I was there I went to this antiques shop filled with retro fridges and dusty comics and amazing vinyl albums from the 80's, from before I was even born, my dudes, which makes me look like a foetus or whatever. Anyway, I was agonising over this fucking incredible standing lamp with an old aged leather lampshade, teeth clenched over the €150 price tag, but... Okay. Let me paint you a picture, here. The lamp was about my height, and the lampshade was at the top, of course, but it was balanced on this handmade ye olde globe, and the globe was being held up by a faux-gold almost-life-sized sculpture of Atlas. It was like a blend of everything I love: good light to read by, inaccurate old-timey maps, and Greek mythology. I was just standing over this lamp, a thread of drool wetting the front of my sweaty t-shirt (it was upwards of thirty degrees all week, and that's not safe for a pale Celtic weirdo like me), trying not to reach into my purse for my credit card. Eventually, I talked myself out of it. Okay, that's a lie. I tore myself away from it, like one might tear a glob of gum from their hair, because that lamp would look so fucking good in my flat, next to the K-2SO figurine and the red thread pinned into the plasterboard and the giant snail in the tank in the living room. I kept cursing it, cursing how poor I am, until I came across a cardboard box full of - no, not false nails or chicken feet. No. It was full of carnivale masks. They weren't the lamp, but they were pretty cool. I dithered between two of them, one with a big velvet ruff and covered in bells, and another smaller one with a salty little smirk on her face. I eventually chose the one with the bells, and it was only like €15, which was... acceptable. Jesus Christ, it wasn't the damn lamp, but it would do. I liked it. It took me a while to get the mask home, because there wasn't enough room in my luggage, but some weeks later I was balancing on the back of the ugly pink armchair, one eye on the TV watching Kurzgesagt and trying not to press a push pin through my finger. Then the mask was up, and it looks cool, and but le sigh. I'll never forget about the lamp. It will live on in my heart forever. So here's the thing. When you read this next part, you'll probably envision me tapping away at my crumb-filled 2012 MacBook next to my giant snail, surrounded by crystals and dusty ornaments and sporting a tin-foil hat, and save for the tin-foil hat, you're not wrong. The point is that on the Ghoul Boys scale, I'm not a Boogara, but nor am I a Shaniac. I'm sort of in the middle, and I have my own theories, and all I'm saying is HEAR ME OUT. It started on the day that the mask arrived in my home. On that day, I experienced my very first lucid dream. It was one of the most terrifying things I've ever fucking witnessed and someday, if anyone's interested, I'll talk about it. I took notes down on my phone the second I woke up, but I needn't have bothered: I remember the dream so vividly, and I also remember the absolutely paralysing fear that I experienced. I know it was a lucid dream, and within the dream I was aware that I was dreaming; I said the words to myself inside my head: I am in a dream. But it was baffling, visceral, and indescribably frightening. I woke up feeling like I had already lived through a day. The full story is for another time but that's still notable. Something changed when the mask went up on the wall. I was sitting in the living room, watching Friends and drawing with my crusty old tablet, and I heard the shoeboxes in my bedroom stir, like they were being shuffled around. My flat is fairly small, and the front door opens out to a short hallway with the bedroom to the left and the living room to the right; the noise was therefore loud enough for me to hear over my roaring laughter at the timeless joy of everyone's favourite 90's sitcom and two (albeit open) doors. An important thing to note here is that there are only two shoeboxes and they're fairly big, so it's not easy for them to topple. I texted my sister about this, and she seemed spooked. At the time, surprisingly, I wasn't worried. I also woke up the morning after the shoebox incident with blinding lateral foot pain that was so bad I couldn't walk, though I had run 4km the day prior to that so I put it down to overexercise. Though I should mention that I had completed that same 4km run many times before with no trouble and had also been exercising quite diligently for weeks before that, so... Make of it what you will. A couple of days later I was lying in bed at about 9am* scrolling through Tumblr, and I heard a funny clattering in the bathroom, like something being knocked by an elbow. Now, my bathroom is stacked absolutely full of useless crap, including but not limited to empty toothpaste boxes, empty shampoo bottles, face masks, 40 vol bleach bottles, a dying orchid, and like eight pairs of sunglasses (???) so it's easy to turn around and knock stuff over. I glanced at the door, then went back to scrolling on Tumblr. Whatever, dude. *Don't hate me, but I tend to write off any paranormal experiences that start with "I had just woken up". Sleep messes with your mind, guys. Stuff like false awakening and sleep paralysis can seriously dick around with your perception of reality. I've experienced false awakening before and later discovered after some extensive research that what I thought was a crazy paranormal experience was just my brain tricking me into thinking I had three arms. I'm always open to suggestion but I tend to take anything that happens just after waking up from REM sleep with a big, big pinch of salt. What makes me pause on this is that I woke up at 8am and had been solidly awake but lying in bed for about an hour, scrolling through social media, when this happened. Last night, just after I had settled down to sleep, I heard what sounded like the fridge door closing. This gave me pause, because before I go to bed I obsessively check the locks on the door, check to make sure the sockets are off at the wall, check to make sure the taps are off, and check to make sure the fridge and freezer are shut. This is a ritual, because if I haven't double, and sometimes triple, checked these things then I lie awake all night getting anxious about it. I did these checks, of course, and then the fridge door shut. Okay. My flat has been sweltering all summer. It's still warm outside. My flat is now cold. Throughout the entire summer, whenever I opened a window, flies and bees and wasps always buzzed inside and annoyed the crap out of me. The windows have been open every day since the mask entered my home and I have not seen a single bug. There are creaks and small movements in the night. I wake every now and again at between 3 and 5am, though I usually sleep like a corpse. Am I imagining it? Probably. But I've seen and heard enough creepy shit in my life to believe that there's more out there than what we can see. And I had prepared, throughout my years, for something of this ilk to happen to me - I had imagined what it might be to live alone and wonder if maybe I wasn't really as alone as I thought. Every time I pictured it, I saw myself terrified and unable to sleep and back in my old childhood home where I could not shake the feeling of being watched. But the thing is that I just honestly don't give a damn. I'm stressed and trying to break into publishing is a fucking disaster and I'm just, like, okay. Whatever. You can haunt my home if you want to, as long as you stay in your corner and I stay in mine. Just don't break anything and we're cool. I can sit at my weird hoofed coffee table and write and this thing, whatever it is, if it even exists, can pulse away inside that mask that feels like it's staring at me, as long as it doesn't scare my friends or pick at the wallpaper. It's cool. I'm fine with it. Let's just both move on with our lives and coexist. You were wondering where the book comes in, right?I feel the same way about this book as I do about the mask. The book's very pretty, but its contents aren't to my taste. That said, I don't harbour any ill feeling towards it. Some years ago I'd have hissed and spat at this book for being so simplistic and depressing and at the same time boring and expected (elemental magic? Really? Come on. It's 20gayteen) but now, as a grown woman, I'm fine with it. It's whatever. It was very, very standard YA fare and I doubt I'll remember it in 6 weeks' time. It'll sit on my book...shelf, no, not a shelf, just a stack on the floor, and as long as it doesn't fall and crush my toe or anything, then it can do its thing and I'll do mine. I can move on from it and forget about it and lament nothing about my time with it. It was blah and thinner than rice paper but I really can't force myself to care. Maybe I should be more pissed off about the book than the ghost, but the ghost cost €15 and the book only set me back like £7.99. The ghost is a better investment, probably, but given the barren fucking wasteland that is my life right now, I'd say they're both equally irrelevant. The only thing I'm cheesed about is the collective £21.35 I paid for a very low-key haunting and a long eye roll. Thanks, Brexit.