Edit: I accidentally read this as Ass Princess and that’s what I’ll always see when I look at this title.This book is everything I wanted Red Queen to be. 👏👏👏👏👏👏👏 What a fantastic debut. I loved this so much, I deadass want to reread it and experience all the feels all over again. It was just so addicting and I was unable to put this down!! I devoured this 400+ page book in two days. Ash Princess is a trope-filled book with a very common story line. Theodosia, or Theo, was six years old when she witnessed her mother's (the queen) brutal murder and had her country conquered from her. In her country there are magical caves that run underneath the temples. For fire, air, earth and water. These are very sacred and only those who have proved themselves to the gods completely can go and get the magical gems. Now, Theo's people are forced to work as slaves in these mines and dig up the magical stones. For ten years she has been living under the Kaiser and his brutal rule, living quietly and trying to please him to survive. All of that ends when she's forced to kill someone and her childhood friend comes and offers her an escape and make things right for their people. She's filled with hate and determination to take back her kingdom and avenge her mother and people. Sounds so common, right? Hmm let's see, it sounds so much like Ruined, Red Queen, Falling Kingdoms (a lot of other YA books I can't think of right now), and the brutal world resembles a lot to An Ember in the Ashes. But, I fucking loved this. In my opinion, this book was so much better than Ruined and Red Queen. This world is so fucking brutal and violent, a lot like An Ember in ashes. Theo is always whipped publicly whenever her people try to rebel. There is mention of rape, slaves are treated horrible, people are always being killed, like in Falling Kingdoms. But unlike, that book, Ash Princess isn't shit-ily written. People are being experimented on and a lot of gore and bloody things occur. There is horrible enslavement that Theo's people go through in the mines and there is vivid descriptions of the horrific things that go on there. There is also a lot of racism that happens in this book. The Kaiser and his people are white while Theo and her people have darker skin and described as "tawny." Theo's country is colonized and her people are enslaved and suffer through a lot of horrific shit. Theo is also mentally and physically abused, so trigger warnings for all that.Theo is a character that I really loved and sympathized with from the very beginning. Her life is horrible. Every day she has to be someone she's not and endure the humiliation and abuse from the Kaiser. She has no privacy of her own (literally, three guards called Shadows watch her 24/7, even when she's changing!!), cannot express her thoughts freely and lives in constant fear of the Kaiser. One wrong move and she'll piss the Kaiser off. Then when that happens and she learns of the horrors her people are going through, she snaps. She still has to pretend, but this time instead of fear, she's filled with hate. She's taking risks to meet with her people. She has to learn that the only way to win and survive is by hate and violence. She's also have an inner conflict with herself over her close friend in the castle and her growing feelings for the crown Prinz. She doesn't want to kill them, but if she is to take back her home, she's going to have to. I really understood her constant inner-battle. Her friend, Cress whose father slit Theo's mothers throat and whips her, is someone she's known for ten years in the castle. Cress helped her and stood up for her against bullies and has been nothing but kind to her. And now she's expected to kill her???? what.Oh no, my guys, this has a LOVE TRIANGLE!!! [cue the groans of every person on the planet] LISTEN, I know y'all hate love triangles and I DO TOO!! but this one is somehow bearable, even though it annoyed me a lot. Theo has feelings for the Prinz and her childhood friend, some dude, whose name I forgot, because I DON'T FUCKING SHIP THEM. He's a really good guy, but Prinz Soren and Theo all the way, bitch. Like, they're both good boys, but idk something about the Prinz, man.Okay, so this is fucking trope-filled and cliche as fuck so everyone's probably going to hate it but I loved it somehow so please read it!!! :( I'm joking, don't listen to me. Y'all probably gonna hate it LMAO. 😔I, personally, really loved this trope-y ass book and would recommend it!! Please give it a try!Pre-review:I'm only reading it for the gorgeous cover. The plot sounds like 1000 other YA Fantasy books out there, but I still have hope that this'll be badass.