“Because that’s how water works. The river flows, pushing against a stone, even as it knows it won’t move it. It doesn’t have to. Enough currents go by, over enough time, and even the strongest stone gives in. It might take a lifetime or more, but water doesn’t give up.” ~ Rating- 3 stars ~Content/ Trigger warnings- Beating, Blood, Captivity, Emotional abuse, Gore, Human experimentation, Inappropriate and unwanted touching, Mass killing, Murder (brutal), Physical abuse, PTSD, Racism, Rape (mention), Slavery, Starvation, Trauma, Whipping {Source} -No mention of these in the review- Ash Princess by Laura Sebastian is a very hyped up book. It's also one of my close friends Nashita’s favourite series. That was the reason I wanted to pick this book, to see if it was worth it. I would say this is the kind of book I would have adored had I read it a few years back, but now... not so much. There isn't anything in this book that makes it unique, and I think that is why it falls flat. But, I didn't completely hate this book.The plotWhen Theodosia was six, her mother, The Fire Queen, was murdered right in front of her eyes. On that day, The Kaiser took her land, her title and her name. Theodosia is forced to endure the ridicule and abuse of the Kaiser and his court- and is crowned Ash Princess, a title of shame.“You’re a lamb in the lion’s den, child. You’re surviving. Isn’t that enough?”But when the Kaiser forces her to do the unthinkable, Theodosia plans to strike. She plans to take over the kingdom, and bring The Kaiser to ruins.“I was a princess made of ashes; there is nothing left of me to burn.Now it’s time for a queen to rise.”I was not a huge fan of the plot of the book. It was extremely predictable, to the point where I knew what would happen at ch 3 itself. There is nothing in it that will keep you at the edge of your seat, yet it is not so painfully boring that you wouldn't want to read further.It is basically a cookie cutter YA, and I was surprised it came out in 2018 as I thought the book was older while reading it. I did find  a few plot holes , and questions we don't get proper answers to. Why is the Kaiser keeping Theo (Theodosia) alive? The reason we get is so that he can oppress her, but wouldn't the people be more shattered if their only hope was dead?Another thing is that Theo was only 6 when her mother died, and that is heartbreaking for a child, but how is it that she has so many clear memories of her past? How does she remember almost everything? That didn't make much sense to me.I think this book started out strong, and ended strong, but the middle was more of a filler. Regardless, I still liked it a bit.The world buildingI liked the concept of the gem stones in this book, but I didn't like execution so much. There wasn’t much of an explanation regarding its usage, and how exactly do Guardians work. There are so many unanswered questions: How many Guardians are there? How are they trained? What are their abilities? Where are they trained? Does each one have a different ability? And a lot more.I think the word was the only unique aspect to this book, but even that wasn’t explored in detail which was sad to see.The writingI personally did not like the writing. From a 400+ page book, there were a few quotes here and there that I enjoyed but otherwise it wasn’t that great.We have everyone’s favourite sentence “I let out a breath I didn’t realise I was holding.”And we have A LOT of repetitions of words. I made a huge list in the comments, as everything won’t fit here, but a few for now-  Smile    “I’m fine,” I say instead, forcing a smile she sees through immediately.“You’re right,” I lie with a smile.“I tell her with what I hope passes as a demure smile.”“I paste a smile on my face as well.”“Crescentia adds with a dimpled smile.”“I give her a reassuring smile as Søren helps her off the ship.”“I don my most innocent smile and link my arm through Erik’s.”“Kaiser’s orders,” he says with a tight smile. “I’m sure he has his reasons.”“He always does,” I reply, hoping my smile looks more natural than it feels.“I force a high, false laugh, keeping my smile frozen and speaking in Astrean for extra measure.”Elpis is bewildered. “Smile,” I tell her"“I look up at the guard and give him my sweetest smile, though it doesn’t seem to do much good. His face remains frozen.”“Søren grimaces, but his eyes are smiling”“I tighten my smile so that it looks vaguely forced”“All it takes are wide eyes, tentative smiles, and a wolf at my heels.”"I shrug, but my smile is feral.""Her eyes linger on me a moment longer before her mouth curls into a tight smile and she clasps her hands in front of her.“Her smile is wan.”“Her mouth twitches into something that might be a smile.”“but he was a gangly boy with an easy smile.”"I smile pleasantly at the barrage of courtiers”“I say, forcing a smile.”“Blaise must see where it’s going, because a grim smile stretches across his face.”“The thought of it causes a smile to rise to my lips.""I smile.”“I give Elpis a smile of thanks”“Cress smiles, relief flooding her face”“Have you ever seen him smile?”“My father doesn’t smile much either.”“I force a smile.”“Her smile is sweet but false.”“Her words rankle, but I try not to show it, forcing a smile instead."“Her smile grows somewhat warmer as she calls for Elpis to come dress her hair.”“She glances at the pin in my hair, set with simple pearls, lips pursing thoughtfully.”"I add with a smile.”“He smiles, relieved.”“With a gracious smile...”“her eyes boring into me no matter how many reassuring smiles I give her." "but I force a smile and try not to let him see it.He manages a smile, but he still doesn’t look at me."“but he catches my look and smiles.”""He shakes his head and smiles. It’s the first time I’ve seen him really smile, “He shakes his head and forces a smile.""Søren softens, a small smile tugging at his lips.“He smiles and passes me the fork.”but Crescentia’s smile”“Her smile faltered.”“but I resisted and after a moment she nodded.”“I smile at her”“I don’t answer him except to nod.”“If I were alone, I might smile.”“I say, hoping for a smile.““she says with a smile so sweet I know it must be fake.”“Art’s smile turns feral”“Her smile is cruel and mocking.”"“but I get the feeling he’s nodding.”“giving him a dimpled smile here”“... watch Crescentia as she gives the Kaiser a dimpled smile”“Crescentia turns our way and her blinding smile grows wider.”“I tell her with a forced smile I hope seems natural.”“she replies with a smile that feels like a blow to my heart.”“her mouth is smiling as she nudges me toward him.""She smiles slightly, her shoulders relaxing.”“... taking my hands in hers and smiling.”“She gives me a smile so sad...”“... fair eyebrows arched over a bemused smile.”“An uncertain smile tugs at her lips...”“Her smile lingers for a moment...”“She has the same smile as Søren.” "Elpis gives me a small smile.”“.... she murmurs, her smile rare and wide.”“... I say, smiling.”“Her smile is genuine, relieved.”“After a second, she gives me a smile”“Cress’s smile softens into something more natural.”“I ask with a bland smile...”“I glance up at him through my eyelashes and summon my sweetest smile.”“His smile broadens and he leans back in the chair, which creaks under his girth." "Søren’s open smile on the boat"“I can’t help but smile." "A small smile works its way to Elpis’s mouth,“He breaks into a lopsided smile when he sees me.”“Even with the wall between us, I know she’s smiling.”“I nod, fighting a smile.”“Cress’s smile is beatific as she does just that, picking up the book of Elcourtian histories.”“I’m going to miss her smile.”“Her smile is a brittle.”“She smiles and gives my hand a squeeze before releasing it." "She smiles, relieved.”“She looks back to me, pale eyebrows raised, smile tentative.”“I try to smile at him”“He means it as a comfort and I smile at him and pretend to be comforted,"“I am rage and hurt and hatred, but I force that aside and give him a small, tentative smile,”“He smiles like a wolf closing in on its prey”“...and I will smile”“... and though he flashes a smile at Søren”"“I say with a half smile.”“Heron smiles”“When I comply, a smile ghosts across his face.”“ She was smiling bigger than I’d ever seen her.”“She smiles and it is wild and triumphant, despite everything.”“Crescentia was pretty and sweet and always smiling.”“I say, twisting my mouth into a cruel smile.”“Her mouth tightens and she mirrors my mockery of a smile."“I hope my smile looks more real than it feels.”“I can’t help but smile.”“... my smile slides away.”“and he almost smiles."“He’s smiling"“he says with a tired smile”“Then wave, at least, and smile”“... it doesn’t have the warmth my mother’s smile always held.”“I tell her, pasting on the fake smile I always wore at court.”“We do,” she says, matching my smile.“... her smile has gone feral.” You can tell with this that, Ash Princess needed a ton of editing. I know it is a debut, but this is too much for me to excuse. This was only ‘smile’, there are a lot more words, some I marked below and some I lost patience for.I understand it’s difficult to completely avoid this, BUT so many repetitions in the same book? I find it annoying.The characters Theodosia “My name is Theodosia Eirene Houzzara, Queen of Astrea, and I will endure this.”I liked Theo a bit as a character. We do see her face a lot, and I found her reactions to everything reasonable.“I am angry.I am hungry.And I promise myself that one day I will watch them all burn.”But I have a feeling her POV would have been a lot more impactful if it was from third person. Even then, I think her character was alright. Søren I honestly found Søren’s character to be a bit unrealistic. He is a Prinz (yes, it’s spelled that way) and he doesn’t act like one.“I know who I am because of it; I know what matters to me and what I’m willing to fight for. Can you say the same?” [Theo to Søren]I found him to be very unsure of himself, and he seemed very willing to do whatever was told. He was far too trusting for a prince, and just too kind. There was no one to teach him kindness. I felt like he should have grown a backbone, I hope that happens in book 2. The Kaiser I was quite indifferent towards the Kaiser. What he does to Theo is evil, but as a ruler he never intimidated me.“My father wants things and he takes them,” he says. “Everyone else be damned.”He seemed like an old man sulking on the throne and getting everyone else to do his work, which made me not have any emotions for his character. I wish he was more of a stronger villain, as that would have made this book more complex. Cress I think Cress was an ok character, and surprisingly I liked her a bit. She isn’t fully fleshed out, but she wasn’t all bad either.“That’s the difference between us, I suppose: Crescentia yearns for love, and I prefer destruction.”I think a lot of people will be irritated by her character, but I feel her arc will play a major role in the rest of the series.  Art  Now Art is the character I am actually invested in.“We are not defined by the things we do in order to survive. We do not apologize for them,” she says quietly, eyes never leaving mine. “Maybe they have broken you, but you are a sharper weapon because of it. And it is time to strike.”I will definitely love to read a book from her PoV!Blaise Blaise is Theo’s childhood best friend, who she never mentions till he randomly shows up.I don’t really have anything to say about him. He was just there.The romance*sighs*There is a love triangle, which is full of insta-love. I don’t like any of the love interests. That’s all I can say spoiler free.I have quotes regarding it which are spoilers, so I’ll put in tags. “Because falling in love with Blaise was always going to happen” [Theo]“You could ask me for the ocean itself and I would find a way to give it to you.” [Søren]“I love you,” he says after a deep breath. “I just want you to know that first. I love you and I would never want to do anything to hurt you.” [Søren]“I know that I love you.”[Søren] Why did I rate it 3 stars?Despite the many flaws in this book, it was not so bad that I didn’t want to finish it. I am still going to continue the series to see where it goes.Final thoughtsI felt Ash Princess could have been a very powerful book, had the love triangle not existed. We see Theo's struggles and it would have been empowering for her to face the Kaiser independently, without her decisions being impacted by the love interests.This book had a lot of potential, but unfortunately it did not deliver. However, I would still recommend it if this is the kind of book you are looking for. I hope the rest of the books are better.Edit-16/2/2022I decided not to finish this series as I've lost interest in this entirely. I don't want to spend time reading something I don't want to. Sorry.   “I should not be calm, but I am. There is one path ahead of me now, and I can see it clearly lit. It is an awful path, one I hate. I will never forgive myself for walking down it. I will not come out the other side the same.But it is the only path I can take.”Thank you to Maddie for buddy reading it with me! (Click on the link for her review)Note- My status updates have mild spoilers. Do not see them if you haven’t read the book.Review written on 9th April, 2021. Storygraph Review. Storygraph. Spotify. Youtube. Pinterest. Linktree.DISCLAIMER- All opinions on books I’ve read and reviewed are my own, and are with no intention to offend anyone. If you feel offended by my reviews, let me know how I can fix it. How I Rate-1 star- Hardly liked anything/ was disappointed2 star- Had potential but did not deliver/ was disappointed3 stars- Was ok but could have been better/ was average / Enjoyed a lot but something was missing4 stars- Loved a lot but something was missing5 stars- Loved it/ new favourite............................................................................This is definitely a 3 star.It has a lot of issues, but I still wasn’t completely bored with it. The beginning and ending were strong, but it felt flat in the middle.It has a fairly predictable plot line. I saw everything coming, nothing surprised me. Even then, it wasn’t all bad.Detailed review to come!