Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.Hands down, the best vampire book ever written!I am in shock over how good this book. This book won my monthly "pick a book for me to read" contest, and I was upset that it won because I've never read a vampire book that I would classify as good - and I've tried many of them. But within one hour of reading, I knew this book was going to be fantastic.The writing is absolutely top notch - it's dark, visceral, and keeps you at the edge of your seat continually. Jay Kristoff, an author that I have never read any books from before this, is clearly very gifted in terms of writing quality and ability to tell an amazing story. The characters are written absolutely marvelously, and the world will suck you up with vivid descriptions that will leave you ravenous for the next book.Story: 5/5The story here is incredible, epic, and addicting to read. The pacing felt great, and even though the book is an absolute behemoth, it actually kept the book action-packed instead of the traditional method of slowly building this story.This book has two features that I normally don't like in books, but somehow work wonderfully here.The first is that it uses a framing narrative where the story is being told by the main character to someone else (think: Name of the Wind). While this style ruins some of the suspense because you already know the fate of some characters, it was a joy to read the interactions between the main character and the person he is telling the story to - with routine jumping in/out throughout the book.The second is that it tells two different stories at the same time from different time periods (think: Prince of Thorns). There is routine jumping from the story of the main characters youth, to the main characters glory years later on - and while this can sometimes get a bit confusing and disjointed, that doesn't happen here. The author does such a good job telling this story that it all fits perfectly and feels like it benefits the overall story.World Building: 5/5On the surface the world here seems rather basic - as you have vampires leading one faction, and living people leading another, and they are at continual war with each other. But the world feels so rich, and real - that you can't help but get completely sucked into it and can mentally visualize everything happening with rich detail. It's the sort of world that you can't stop thinking about, and will leave you desperately hoping we get more of these books as quickly as possible.Fantasy Elements: 3/5The only negative marks I will say about this book is really more of a personal taste thing, but I'm just not a huge fan of vampires as fantasy creatures. This is luckily saved from hurting the overall book for me because of how well everything is written (the vampires included), but I just don't find myself enthusiastic about the things that make vampires unique. Nothing feels fresh here, as they have all the same powers and tendencies that you would traditionally associate with them.Characters: 5/5The characters here are wonderfully written - with you loving some and hating some, and all of them being interesting in their own way. The main protagonist is incredible, and even after one book (granted, it's a huge book) the characters growth you get to see here is wonderful. It evokes many of the same feelings you get reading the characters in Realm of the Elderlings, which is extremely high praise as I think Robin Hobb is the undisputed champion for character writing in fantasy novels.It's hard to pull off, but I absolutely love when a book successfully writes characters where you can see all the stages of their life. And this book nails it.Writing Style: 5/5While I like so much about this book, the writing style is what really sets this book apart from other books. It's absolutely wonderfully done, and stands among the greatest writing in any fantasy book I have ever read. This is not a book for children, and the extreme use of profanity - while normally might feel excessive, is so convincingly well written that it will never get stale. It really wouldn't matter what the author was talking about, when you can write this good it just sucks in the reader and doesn't let go.Enjoyment: 5/5If you couldn't tell by now, I had an absolute blast reading this book from start to finish - and I cannot wait for the next book to come out so I can devour it instantly.