Despite my low rating, The Bone Witch actually wasn't that bad. It was surprisingly well developed, something YA fantasy tends to slack on. I got a strong sense of the world, the royal culture of ashas - females who wield magic - and the magic itself was very detailed.I liked the world building derived from ancient Japanese culture. The fighting, robes called huas females wore, and respectful traditions such as bowing and proper titles all brought me back to Alison Goodman's dragon fantasy, Eon, which was based on ancient asian cultures. It was really interesting to read about.Another thing I liked was the magic. We follow young Tea (pronounced Tay-uh), who discovers she is a bone witch when she raises her brother from his grave. Tea's dark asha power lies in commanding the dead and she is taken away to be trained by an ancient bone witch.However, despite the excellent world building, I couldn't get past the fact that this book was so boring for the majority of the plot. After Tea goes into training to become a better asha, that was pretty much the whole plot until the last 15%. Give me some drama already.Also, the writing was way too flowery for my taste. So many descriptions of dresses - seriously, each new female introduction came with a loooong description of her dress - and the purple prose made me want to fall asleep:“She wore a beautiful hua of a deep coral that made an elegant contrast against her dark skin. Blue-green bamboo swayed against swirling, silver cloud patterns on the rich cloth, and she had on a gray waist wrap with embroidered sparrows set in gold.”As for the characters, they were almost uncomfortably well-mannered. They had this stiff, proper way of acting and the dialogue came across as robotic. I think this might have been because a lot of the characters were royalty, but because they acted this way, I couldn't get a good sense of their personalities hidden behind polite small talk.Tea's relationship with her brother, Fox, also felt unrealistic. I have four brothers and know it's not always smiles and unlimited love for your sibling. Their relationship was way too nice - and that may sound harsh, but it was the kind of nice that felt fake. Only in a dream would siblings ever get along that well.The pretty, descriptive magical world made for a great setting, but there wasn't enough plot to carry it. Granted, there was some cool action involving creepy monsters called Daevas at the end, but that didn't make up for the yawnfest that was the rest of The Bone Witch.If you happen to love endless descriptions of dresses, though, then by all means, pick up this book.