A huge thanks goes to Rin Chupeco and Sourcebooks Fire for the opportunity to submit this unbiased opinion.A story collecter has a dream and chases down an asha, an exiled bone witch with her own tale to tell, even at the age of seventeen. The story she tells begins with her girlhood while she was known as Tea in her large family, who brings her older brother, Fox, back from the dead. This is how it's discovered she is a dark asha. Word of her feat reaches Lady Mylaeka, a renowned asha, who takes Tea and Fox to her haven in Ankyo for proper training. Tea and Mykaela travel from principality to principality curing the ill and wounded and celebrating the equinox. Slowly they make their way to the Willows, the village of the asha. The book flips between past perspective of Tea's training and education, and the present, which winds through the explanations of the daeva and their bezoars. Daeva are murderous, destructive beasts, more devastating than a simple wild animal. The bezoar, hidden in the monsters' midsections and carved out, are sought for their rejuvenating powers. The most malevolent is the azi, a great dragon. Life in the village sounds as if it took inspiration from the great geisha. Their gowns, tea houses, training and talents bear a strong likeness. Gentlemen are entertained. There are apprenticeships. Although it may sound unoriginal, the mutations to the links between are unlike anything I've ever read. Warrior geisha The most endearing character in the book is Likh, an assistant in a jewelry shop. His strong perception of self will speak to thousands of YA readers. He doesn't spend much time on the story, but he is very important. The best help I had in understanding this book was the following clarifications of asha: " most are well-versed in elemental magic; there are asha who further their careers in the arts and become wives; asha known for their expertise in battle; asha skilled in politics; and the dark asha who raise and banish the daeva." But what is Tea? Is she an amalgamation? Is she an aberration? There is also a beautiful dance sequence telling the myth of the first dark asha-melancholic and lovely. As we reach the end of the story climax builds upon climax luring the reader to a dastardly plan as well as the next stage of Tea's strategy. The ending definitely left me wanting to read book two in the series. Kudos to you, Chupeco! What an exciting beginning!