“Then perhaps we should carve a world one day where the strength lies in who you are, rather than in what they expect you to be.” The Bone Witch had such an interesting premise that I thought I would love it, despite the mixed reviews. Unfortunately, not even that could keep me engaged for most of the story and this ended up falling quite flat for me. the premiseTea lives in a land of magic and witches. Her sisters all have powers of a more traditional sense, such as water, fire and earth. But one day, Tea disovers that she is a necromancer and accidentally wakes up her dead brother from his coffin. This means she is a bone witch, a dark asha who is feared in this world. She must move across the country to a magic school that trains asha. the magic I thought the magic system had the potential to be really interesting. People wear heartglasses- think mood rings- that bone witches can read, deciphering your emotions based on the colour. Then it gets more confusing, you can give your heartglass to someone you love, but they can use it to control you. Heartglasses can also be manufactured by heartforgers using memories. I'm sure I missed some things while reading, but this whole system makes me quite confused. Are you born with a heartglass? Why would you give it away? Why even bother if you can live without it?the writingwhile at times beautiful, the writing was convoluted and overly descriptive. This is coming from someone who really likes convoluted and overly descriptive writing. The audiobook was the only thing making me push through it at times, allowing me to zone out for some of the unnecessary, page long descriptions. Along with the descriptions, the writing was weighted down with some serious info dumping that left me confused, instantly forgetting what I had just been told. the pacing This is a common critique I have heard of this book, and I was no different. I found this book slow and quite frankly boring. Nothing happened, and any plot that was there was bogged down in the overly descriptive prose. I listened to the audiobook and every time I thought I was nearing the end, I would find out I had hours left. the charactersthis might be a side-effect of listening to the audiobook (and maybe, maybe not zoning out slightly) but I did not care for any of the characters, and even got some of them confused for the majority of the time. The characters felt quite underdeveloped and personality-less. I didn't care about what would happen to them which as a character driven reader was detrimental to my enjoyment of the story. I couldn't even pick a favourite character because they were all that forgettable to me. the enjoyment factorwhile at times I was extremely bored, I actually did enjoy parts of this book. I never really considered DNF'ing it, and genuinely wanted to discover more about this world that so intrigued me. the verdictI would recommend this to a limited group of readers. If you are someone who loves intricate magic systems, and don't mind info dumps of lengthy descriptions- this could be perfect for you!Currently, I am undecided about whether I want to continue with the series. If you have any advice for me, feel free to let me know!