Unpopular opinion time Yay!I thought about giving this book 2 stars but who am I kidding? It was a torture to read it! I seriously have no idea how I got to the end. Oh wait, yes I have! I was actually waiting for something, anything, to happen! Plus, it promised meA world divided between black and white witches and those in the dark side are tortured and murdered. Almost all the black witches are nowhere to see but one. Since Nathan was a baby he is treated poorly by his family. The only kid from the most powerful Dark Lord black witch that is alive and a white witch who died after giving birth to him. His life is a journey to discover his true self. Is his heart black or white?"You will have a powerful Gift — we can all see that — but it’s how you use it that will show you to be good or bad."In his journey he meets a really popular girl. While he lives in the shadows, always alone with no friends, she is the opposite. She is the light everyone is attracted to. But oh wait, she wants to be his friend! But wait... I'm having a Deja Vu here....So how cool would it be to read a book about little Snape whose father is Voldemort?It would be awesome but I'm still waiting for it because this book has nothing with the amazing world of J.K.At first I was surprised by the writing style. I didn't like it but I have to admit that we don't see it every day.After push-ups it’s just standing and waiting. Best look at the ground. You’re by the cage on the path. The path’s muddy, but you won’t be sweeping it, not today, not with this plan. It’s rained a lot in the last few days. Aside from the "You do this. Now you should do that", it was like I was looking at some people's freaking twitter!!Just had a shower. There’s a load of shampoo, soap, and stuff in the bathroom. And there’s an electric razor, which is a nightmare and hacks bits off my chin, but I can heal quick enough so I use it.Tweet 1: Good morning guys! I just woke up :)Tweet 2: Now I'm walking to my bathroomTweet 3: Oh, I'm getting my awesome pink toothbrush.Tweet 4: Now I'm brushing my brilliant teeth.As I got more in the book, the writing style changed to normal to tell the story of how we got there. However, it was slow and at some point it was really dragging. Most characters were just useless and weak. I saw some tentative plot of "Nobody is totally good or totally evil" but it was a big fail. Specially the dark witches who were bad just to have people in the dark side for the plot's sake.The world building was also lacking. Aside from the witches' story, I missed some aspects about the place. Sometimes I was even imagine them in a middle age style and had to be reminded that this was a nowadays story. Also, at some point the inner dialog got into a loop where we had nothing new.But wait, in this magical world that was one thing that disappointed me most. WHERE THE HELL IS MY MAGIC????Where were the tons of spells? What would school teach aside from what the minister wanted them to ___Reead___? Why the hell would witches use fists and knifes to fight? I was promised magic so WHERE IS MY FREAKING MAGIC???After all the dull pages I was expecting the climax. Well... I couldn't find it. So, if you are in for some depressive thoughts and a kid who is trying really hard to be accepted by his magic(?) society that doesn't give a damn about him and just make him suffer more and more, this is your book.But if you are looking for a book full of magic and spells, with a little bit of action and romance, I don't think I would recommend this. All in all, this just wasn't for me.