This book as a major disappointment for me. Some spoilers to follow.While there was a bundle of good messages at its core (don't be ashamed of who you are, don't judge others by outward appearance, change can happen) the story itself struck me as aggressively shallow. What I mean by this was that for all the neat or quirky ideas in the book there was little to no exploration of them.For instance we learn that gnomes exist but have been greatly reduced in numbers (indigenous people parallel perhaps) but we never learn beyond that. The fact just sort of floats out there, untethered to any consequence in the story. We don't know why or how what happened to the gnomes even though one of the main children in the story is a gnome herself.Another child is the Anti-Christ. How do we know this? It is written in a file. This leads to all sorts of theological questions: how do we know his father is the devil? What are the theological implications of this revelation (no pun intended)? Why, in God's name, is he not being monitored 24/7 or perpetually doused in holy water if he really is a threat to bring about the end of the world? Once again we see no real examination of the ideas the story presents us.Why are people afraid of magical creatures? UnclearHow do magical children integrate into society when they come of age? Never spoken of even though their powers would have a lot of beneficial real world consequences.There was just so many consequential world building aspects that were ignored. This resulted in a lot of blank space around the story. There was no sense of the world or why it was the way it was.The story itself was rather predictable. Will the children win the heart and affection of the by-the-books but terribly lonely case worker? Will the sad sack case worker find true love and break out of his dismal existence? Will everything work out better than expected by the end? I think you know the answer to those question. There were no surprises of twists. No moral ambiguity or tests. Possible plot turns that were alluded to in the story never grew into anything. The good guys were clearly just and right, the antagonists (which I suppose could be the system instead of individuals) were very passive and absent in the story. There was no clash in the story and the big decision the main character makes to change his life is painfully telegraphed by the cliched nature of the story up to that point. The book as a whole felt like a waste of time to me. While there were occasional chuckles elicited, the plot remained unengaging, the characters uninteresting, and the whole reading experience a chore. It read like one big PSA that boiled down to: Don't judge a book by its cover. In this case the cover was much more pleasing than the book itself.