edit: 5/31/21: I'm just going to leave this quote here that TJ Klune said in this podcast.  source  “The House in the Cerulean Sea” is a, it’s a bit of a quirky fantasy, but it deals with some very real, topical, specific issues. It actually started from a Wikipedia article because I have a tendency to get lost in Wikipedia for a long time and that’s a problem. But I will be in one article and I’ll click on another one, then another one, and then another one until I’m completely off what I was trying to look up to begin with. But I came across something known as the Sixties Scoop, which was in Canada during the fifties and sixties, where indigenous children were taken from their homes and put into government sanctioned orphanages, for lack of a better word.  And the idea stuck with me. It was something that I could not shake. And this was, this was at the end of 2017-ish. I had just finished writing my YA debut, “The Extraordinaires,” and I was looking into wanting to continue along in that vein with something a little bit different. And so when I stumbled upon this article about children being taken because they were different or they didn’t adhere to what standards people thought should be at the time , it was something that I couldn’t get out of my head and, but I didn’t want to co-opt, you know, a history that wasn’t mine. I’m a cis white dude, so I can’t ever really go through something like what those children had to go through. So I sat down and I was like, I’m just going to write this as a fantasy. " because ... writing it as a fantasy ... is going to ... change the fact that — i simply just have no words. ---update: 5/18I'm honestly shocked & appalled at how frequently I've seen The House in the Cerulean Sea recommended for many reasons. I was incredibly put-off by the fatphobia while reading it, as well as the love interest being the "master of the orphanage" (which is also a conflict of interest + there’s an uneven power dynamic ... not to mention master of the orphanage sure is ... a choice), but it wasn't until after i finished the book and googled it that I realized T.J. Klune had written The House in the Cerulean Sea based off of the Sixties Scoop —  While clicking through Wikipedia--his favorite website, he said--one night, he discovered a page about the "Sixties Scoop," which refers to the Canadian government's practice of removing indigenous children from their homes with the intent of adopting them out to white, middle-class families.  source .Although I believe The House in the Cerulean Sea sets out to send a message about celebrating differences, unpacking preconceived notions & stereotypes about others, and seeing what can happen when people are given a place where they feel safe & cherished, it does so in incredibly harmful ways. It quite frankly, lacks nuance. Linus has worked for what is essentially, a magical version of DCYF for seventeen years, and has never once questioned how these children come to be removed & separated from their homes, families and their cultures, placed into "homes" that aren't a good fit, never once wondered what happens to them after he's done evaluating the home? Never once thinks about who has the "rights" to make these decisions for these children? Never once questions or considers the trauma that they go through? The House in the Cerulean Sea is quite frankly, shallow. The comparisons/parallels between these magical, sometimes human, sometimes not, children, and the sufferings between Indigenous people are awful. Can we talk about how TJ Klune found out about The Sixties Scoop and then went ~ ooh let me profit off of this and wrap it in a found family story and make it okay ~. We're supposed to just ... know that these magical beings have been greatly reduced in numbers, separated from their homes, and then ... what? That it's okay because they have a new home and things are "better" now? Better for who? In what sense? Is the best option not reunification with their family and cultures? Why isn't there any conversation about what happened to the magical adults? There is no consideration to the actual historical or systemic oppression in the world of The House in the Cerulean Sea , nor is there any consideration of it in our real world today. I am still trying to wrap my mind around the fact that  the entire town stops being outwardly bigoted because their mayor says so, and that DICOMY stops looking into Arthur because of Linus' report. The reason we're given for why humans hate magical beings is because they're afraid — we're told that if humans only got the chance to know these magical beings, then their prejudice would go away. That's ... not how oppression works. Racism and prejudices don't just go away from knowing someone of that marginalized group.I would not recommend this book to anyone, and if you’d like to learn more about The Sixties Scoop, here are some books I plan on checking out: — Intimate Integration: A History of the Sixties Scoop and the Colonization of Indigenous Kinship— Ohpikiihaakan-Ohpihmeh (Raised Somewhere Else): A 60s Scoop Adoptee's Story of Coming Home— Behind the Smile: A Survivor of the Metis Sixties Scoop-----previous review (5/16): edit: what the fuck do you mean this is based off of "the Sixties Scoop, which refers to the Canadian government's practice of removing indigenous children from their homes with the intent of adopting them out to white, middle-class families." (  source  ) this was .... a disappointment. i know so so many people who loved this book, but i really couldn't get into it. the repeated fatphobia, calling arthur the "master of the orphanage" ... there was just so much that didn't sit right with me.bella's review  here  and this bit from thefourthvine's review highlights some of my biggest issues with this book:The worldbuilding in this story — pretty much isn’t. What country is it located in? We do not know. Why are there magical beings in it? We don’t know. What is the governmental structure? No clue. And you’d think all that wouldn’t matter, but oh, it does. The main character, Linus Baker, works for the department that is apparently in charge of taking magical children from their parents and imprisoning them in orphanages or schools. (Never quite clear what the difference is between the two — at one point the narrative mentions bars on the windows at schools, but then, it sounds like that’s the case at some of the orphanages, too.) The book does say that’s something that used to happen, but I can only assume it is still happening in some form, because otherwise, where do all these kids come from? Are the magical adults being killed? Are they forced into poverty such that their children are getting taken away from them?And if that’s starting to sound like a very familiar real-world story, just with Black or Native American people turned into magical/monstrous beings, well, yeah. That’s a big part of my problem with this book. Shoddy worldbuilding can wander over into offensively appropriating the genocidal traumas of real groups of people, simply because the author didn’t think things through. (I assume he didn’t think things through. If he genuinely decided to do this, to recapitulate the traumas of real-world peoples, but turn them into monsters first, my opinion of him downgrades 1000 notches, and this review will lose its last star.) i personally would not recommend this book.