⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ ! Claire and Jamie are finally reunited after twenty years apart. Has their love managed to survive the 20 year long separation?"It has always been forever for me, sassenach."“Voyager” is definitley my new favorite book in this series. It was pretty much perfection for me and it pains me not to give this 5 stars. I have absolutely no complaints about the first 50-60%. It was still good after that, but I significantly lost interest to my big dismay. But this is still one of the best books I've ever read. I found “Voyager” much more fast paced than Dragonfly in Amber, which was probably a big reason I loved it as much as I did. The writing was, as usual, flawless and brilliant. I also found that the time jumps from Jamie and Claire, added to the story. Their respective stories were both compelling and engrossing."I shook so that it was some time before I realized that he was shaking too, and for the same reason. I don't know how long we sat there on the dusty floor, crying in each others arms with the longing of twenty years spilling down our faces."Jamie and Claire are now twenty years older, but still (about 200 years) apart We get to learn about their seperate lives in their separate times. Other characters are also slowly introduced, like their daughter Brianna. It breaks my heart that Jamie wasn't able to raise her. I knew he would have been a wonderful father too Bree. I wanted to like her, but unfortunately I got the impression that she's a spoiled brat; resentful towards her mother and loyal towards her (step) father. I hope that changes in later books. I want to love Jamie's daughter. She has grown up in the belief that Frank is her real father and the truth is naturally a big shock for her. Unfortunat, I despised Frank more than ever in this book. But I love to hate him, I guess. He is needed for the story.“Do ye want me?" he whispered. "Sassenach, will ye take me - and risk the man that I am, for the sake of the man ye knew?” While Claire has become a doctor and raised their daughter with her now decesead husband Frank in the 20th century, her beloved Jamie has been left alone, presumed dead, in 1745. He has survived a certain death against all odds. Not knowing what has happened to his wife and unborn child.This book is told in alternate POV,s and I'm happy to say that Jamie's were some of this books highghlight's. Jamie continues be the endearing, perfect swoon worthy hero. A little older, but still our same Jamie. Only a bit wiser and more mature. And if possible, even MORE irresistible. And yes yes, that (you know what scene I'm talking about, I know what scene I'm talking about) was perfect and epic!"Then kiss me, Claire," he whispered, "And know that you are more to me than life, and I have no regret.” Diana Gabaldon mastered the twenty year absence between Jamie and Claire brilliantly. She deserves a standing ovation.! Also, “Voyager” had so many touching and emotional moments that made me tear up.. I loved it. Some parts bored me but overall this was a amazing story. Highly recommend!MAGNIFICENT, SENSATIONAL, BRILLIANT!| Hero 5 | | Angst | High focus || Heroine | 5 | | Romance | | High focus || Sexual tension | 4 | | Suspense | Medium focus || Storytelling | 5 | | Humour | Medium focus || Storyending | 4 |