Originally posted on A Frolic Through FictionDNFed approx 230 pages in.Why why why why why?Why did all the books just go downhill for me? UGH.Outlander was a favourite book for me. Since then it’s just not been going well.So here’s the story of how the first 200 pages of this book went for me.First off, I was just bored. It started with a complete implausible situation for me, which wasn’t great. But it switches between two perspectives: neither of which I found interesting for the most part. But I thought “well it’s the beginning of a very long book, so I’ll give it a chance.” 200 pages in, that hadn’t really changed.And there’s the small fact that I really don’t like Brianna. I’ve no idea why, I just don’t.Then we have the situation where I noticed something and couldn’t stop noticing. That being how many times Diana Gabaldon describes Jamie Fraser’s eye and hair colour. I started tabbing them – in 10 pages she’d mentioned his hair and eye colour 6 times. 
Once even 3 times on one page. 
REALLY?!? I know he’s meant to be this swoon worthy character, but I’m pretty sure we established in the first book what colour his bloomin’ hair and eyes are.That, paired with the fact that every single person ever mentioned seemed to idolise Jamie, just started to become infuriating to read about. I use to adore Jamie. I’m pretty sure in my review of the first book I’m just fangirling over him. But now…Now this situation stands: I came across a little scene that made me dislike him. A lot.Now I’m about to rant about a small scene in the book, so if you don’t want to read a minor spoiler, skip ahead to the next paragraph. Because this scene…I don’t even know. 
(This is your last chance to skip ahead – don’t blame me if you read it.)
 So basically, Jamie Fraser rapes a woman. Now, I KNOW that this is set in the 1700’s, and rape was hardly uncommon back then. But that’s not why it bothered me. It bothered me because for the first time in this series (as far as I’m aware), rape was treated like it was a good thing. All other mentions of it had come with reactions of disgust or general disdain, but when Jamie Fraser does it? No, apparently he was doing her a favour. And I don’t care that technically, the woman started things – she very clearly screamed at him to stop numerous times, in which his response was that rape was – and I quote – the “only coherent thing” to do. ARE YOU KIDDING ME? Not once did it say that he’d done a bad thing, even when the after effects of that ended up so much worse. It was horrific to read.So quite frankly, between that scene and everyone idolising him, I can’t bring myself to like Jamie Fraser anymore. And I’m not even sorry.But that means that there was no way in hell I was going to carry on reading a 1000+ page book about someone I don’t like. Especially when I don’t like one of the main side characters either. I haven’t got time for that.NOTE: Trigger Warning for rape.