I wish I had never read this book and destroyed the image of Jamie and the storyline as a whole. For a 1000+ page book this was an utter disappointment. I know that there are people who love this book and series a lot, but sadly this is the last one for me. I won't continue with the series. Also, this book could have easily been 600 pages, I can't seem to understand why the author likes to write unnecessary big books. That too super slow paced. While Diana Gabaldon have been accurate about violence against women, in the past. It's not a surprise that the "superior" race would also be racist. Making your characters racist and exposing the mindset of the then people is different, but being racist while you're narrating is something else- it is a reflection of who you (the author) are. It was highly uncomfortable to read. Jamie's character was ruined for me in this book. In the past two books, his character developed into someone who is moral, strong, honest with such immense love to give. This book decided to throw all those traits and make him into an immoral, rapist, liar and a conniving coward. It's funny (not) how he repeatedly assures Claire that he's an honest man but hides his second wife and later on son. He also rapes a young virgin who screamed at him to stop! He continues to take God's name in vain (an unattractive trait he picked up from Claire- but still shocking cause he really never used to do that before). While there will be excuses that "Jamie is a broken hearted man" it's not enough. It's a lame excuse and he did pull up crap even after reuniting with Claire. Jamie is a walking red flag, both Claire and Laoghaire deserve better 🚩🚩I really don't want to get into Frank's character- a racist, adulterous man is how I'll remember him as. Claire frustrated me. She is such a strong woman and stands up to Jamie in petty fights but when he does something actually majorly wrong- she forgives him so easy. Like woman, where is your self respect now?! Did I care about the whole Ian storyline? Heck no. I rated it two stars instead of one cause I liked the part where Claire and Jamie are reunited and she shows him pictures of Brianna (who I still don't like). I'm glad I made it to a 1070 pages and it's over.