Not a true review...Random thoughtsHighlights-	Jamie and Claire’s reunion-	Jamie’s third person POV, including what happened to him during the years of their separation-	Lord John Grey’s role in Jamie’s life-	The hunt for the hidden treasure -	Information about time-travel-	A prophecy is told-	A surprise character from Outlander returns.IssuesThe book had over-the-top angst with a series of coincidences, old acquaintances entering the story, and back-to-back obstacles. Jamie and Claire can’t seem to catch a break. I've always loved the humor Jamie displayed but the additional humor is this book seemed a little silly.What I LikedI liked how Jamie and Claire’s reunion wasn't easy. They obviously never stopped loving each other, but they were strangers to another with 20 years of life’s experience separating them. As time passed, they hit their stride again with Jamie and Claire finding their stride as a couple with issues still to work through. I loved the scene where Claire finds out about Laoghaire. So much anger and passion! It was hard seeing Jamie as a smuggler, at first. Honor has always seemed so important to him. Then, it became understandable. He grew harder and is a survivor with his family well-being at the forefront of his actions. I also loved the added dynamic of Lord John Grey. The intense emotion that Claire and Grey provoke in one another is riveting. I’ll be closely watching these characters’ interactions with fiendish delight.Why I’ll Keep ReadingWhat happened at Culloden? Did Jonathan Fraser save Jamie’s life?  Why is Jamie’s grave in the same kirkland as Fraser’s? Where is Claire’s grave? Why isn't she buried next to him? Does she go back to the future? What will come of the prophesy? Who will be king of Scotland?How is Claire different from other time travelers? Will the blue aura she had in common with Master Raymond be explained? (By the way, I’m sad Master Raymond is gone.)Why didn’t Claire tell Jamie about Laoghaire’s actions in Outlander? What will trigger the eventual telling? (I peeked at spoilers and know it will come up in Drums of Autumn.) Will Claire meet other time-travelers? Can it only happen at Craig na Dun? What about those crystals/stones Master Raymond gave Claire? What about the black diamond?Will Claire and Jamie have an HEA? I hope so!