“Then again, that was the point of being in the band, wasn’t it? A tiger, however fearsome, could be hunted into a corner. It fought alone, so it died alone. But to hunt a wolf was to constantly look over your shoulder, wondering if others were behind you in the dark.”This is a year of many great debuts so far and I think it is safe to presume that this will be one of the best, if not the best. This is one the best debuts I have ever read and I can't remember having so much fun since the Lies of Locke Lamora and the Theft of Swords. That being said, this goes straight to my all-time favorites shelf.There was a time when Saga was the best band of mercenaries in the known world and their escapades remained legendary even today because glory never gets old. Speaking of present times, mercenaries have changed; there were no more touring across the lands of Grandual and the notorious Heartwyld and killing whatever you were hired to kill. Mercenaries (bands) today are doing gigs in the arenas and the only thing they are after is fame. Clay Cooper, once a proud member of Saga, is living an ordinary life, enjoying the comforts of home with his wife and daughter. But then, an ex-bandmate turns up at his door asking for help. His daughter is trapped in the city under siege on the other side of the world and time has come to get the band back together for one last tour. This is a tale about a quest with impossible odds, a quest that will take you on a fun adventure and you’ll be excited as Bilbo was when he was on his way to Ereborbut it is also a tale of friendship and camaraderie between a fantastic group of characters and you’ll have a hard time picking your favorite one. If you like hit first, ask questions later, always eager to fight warrior, then your pick would be Ganelon. If you like kind-hearted, goofy characters, Moog is your man. Or your wizard, your preference. For a laid-back hedonist type, look no further than Matrick. No one can dislike an adventurous and charismatic character like Gabe. The last, and most certainly not the least, a silent but strong type, which is, of course, Clay. The heart and soul of this group, reluctant to be considered as a hero or a leader of any kind and most eager to help those in need.You can see straight away that Eames is fan of video games not just because of the quest like storyline but because of the vast number of RPG elements like the various creatures in this world, scenery, legendary weapons, armor and skyships. I think that is more than enough to make every fan of JRPGs and MMORPGs happy. I was an avid gamer when I was younger so I had my fair share of RPGs and reading this was like a trip down memory lane. This book is the best RPG I have never played. In addition, it also has the best soundtrack, well, if you’re a fan of classic rock like I am. Don’t let this observation mislead you; you don’t have to be a gamer to appreciate this book, this one will appeal to all fantasy fans alike and there are no sufficient words to recommend this fantastic book enough.I mentioned the soundtrack so you’re probably wondering what the hell I’m on about. (Owl)Bear with me. If you go to the author’s web page you can find a lot of great stuff there like the map of the world, various art of the characters and yes, you guessed it, the soundtrack, which inspired Eames while he was writing. I was listening to these songs while reading and it worked great so not only did the author successfully managed to channel the spirit of the songs into the story but he also gave me a movie like experience as well. Since I digressed into the topic of music, there’s nothing I can do now, I guess I’ll keep on rambling. Throughout this novel you’ll come across a lot of rock music easter eggs. For instance, the band’s name is Saga and I might be taking a shot in the dark here but I think that is an homage to the Canadian rock band of the same name, but there is one reference I’m very certain of and that is the Riot House, a place for mercenary bands to gather round and participate in all kinds of debauchery. Riot House was the nickname of the Hyatt Hotel in LA and it was a hotel of choice for touring rock bands in the 60s and the 70s like Led Zeppelin, the Rolling Stones, the Doors, the Who and the rest of the superstars of the era, and you can imagine what kind of stuff must have happened there and reading about it here made me grin with approval.Even though this is a lighthearted and fun fantasy there were a lot of touching moments and as I was reading them I could almost swear someone was cutting onions nearby. Author did a great job of delivering scenes that put you through a roller coaster of emotions and it will make you appreciate this story even more.One thing that I particularly enjoyed were the fighting sequences, they were gripping, energetic, suspenseful and mixed up with just the right dose of humor and every time they were done, I was craving for more. I had so much fun reading this rollicking adventure and I would recommend it to all fantasy fans but especially to the fans of Michael J. Sullivan because of the way the characters are written and Scott Lynch because this novel has that kind of flair with its witty, sharp dialogues and plenty of twists and turns. Kings of the Wyld is the first book in The Band trilogy but it can be read as a standalone because the story wrapped up with no loose ends and next book in the series, Bloody Rose, will cast a new set of characters which I can’t wait to meet and accompany them on their adventure.