In a year full of impressive fantasy debuts, Kings of The Wyld earned itself a top spot among the greats.As I have not been gaming for almost two decades now, a lot of the RPG and Final Fantasy references did not click with me. Regardless, I still had an awesome time reading this book. Unlike Ready Player One which I found to be enjoyable mainly because of the 80s pop culture references, Kings of the Wyld resonated with me because of its characters and story. I did get the homage to the music bands of old vs the recent ones (it's been over 30 years since I've fallen in love with Duran Duran and am proud to see them still going strong). And being in that demographic group, I can't help but agree that the overall quality of the bands back in the day was much better. While I am not saying that there are no standouts in the modern era, they are but far and few in between. Ok, I am digressing. The characters are the highlight of this novel. I pretty much loved every band member of Saga. Even though the story was told solely from the third person perspective of Clay Cooper, I was still able to know the other band members well enough to appreciate their characterisation. Just when I thought that I found my favourite character, one or another will do or say something that makes me love him just as much. Gabriel, Moog, Matrick and Ganelon are all awesome in their own unique way and that solid bond of friendship between these guys is truly touching. Even the supporting characters, notably a revenant and a two-headed monster, were highly likeable. Eames also gave us a villain which I can completely empathise with. As individuals they were each of them fallible, discordant as notes without harmony. But as a band they were something more, something perfect in its own intangible way.Of course, great characters alone do not make a good tale. What was most compelling to me was the beautiful simplicity of the story. It was a story of a father's love for his daughter. And behind that, a friend's love, compassion and empathy. Eames then took that simple story that was full of heart and made it utterly entertaining with two killer ingredients; humour and mythological monsters. With a blend of sarcastic and ironic humour, sometimes crude or laced with innuendos, and occasionally slapstick even, the narrative never ventured too far into grimness before it drew me back with laughter. While a lot of the gaming references flew over my head, I did appreciate and enjoy how the world was built upon almost every mythological monster in the fantasy genre - be it in books or games. Some which I'd come across back during my teenage years when I used to immerse myself in Fighting Fantasy books by Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone. Remember these?Eames has a prose and writing style that engages the reader without too much flourish that can distract from an immersive experience. With good pacing and well-written action scenes, the pages just flew by whenever I pick up the book. While this is the first book in a series, it can be read on its own as its ending wrapped up the story satisfactorily. All in all, a fantastic read that is full of heart and loads of rollicking fun.