I found The Kings of the Wyld underwhelming and totally unworthy of the hype surrounding it. Now I’m going to start with the strengths. The book made me laugh. There are so many moments of irony and slapstick comedy. And some of them were well executed and timed perfectly, though others bordered on plain stupidity. Moog, the wizard of the band, was just way too ridiculous to function. He fucks up constantly and most of his antics felt forced. As time went on, the book started to feel like a Dungeons and Dragons campaign where the characters resemble overly enthusiastic players who were just trying to make each other laugh with their in-game antics. Considering these guys were on a life or death mission, they had way too much fun in the process. So, because of this, there was a certain lack of immersion. I couldn’t engage with the plot and I seriously hated the geeky references, references to famous video-game lines and creatures from DnD. The world was a mess and the humour (the only strength of the book) became irritating. For example, at one point, the wizard throws his phylactery (his cure for erectile dysfunction) which results in the band all getting raging erections whist their trying to escape from their assailants. (Yawn.) I liked the idea of old retired warriors coming back together for one last mission but was disappointed with their lack of spirit and passion. For me, the antagonist was by far the most interesting character. I wanted to read his book. In a way, although his actions were violent and terrible, he had a just cause for being so angry. And I don’t think any of the band could engage with or understand his stance. He was determined to free the creatures that have been rounded up for sport by the humans. He was tired of the way they have crushed the Wyld to near extinction and bullied the fantastical races into subjugation. Although he was the bad guy, his stance felt quite relevant to modern concerns over the environment. I wanted to see more of him. The writing was also quite amateurish, verging on fan-fiction quality to the point where I’m surprised it wasn’t edited with a harsher hand. Now that’s a bold thing to say, this book has clearly done very well for itself with readers and reviewers acclaiming it as the best debut of 2017, though I certainly read better books that were published that year. Maybe I just like my fantasy to have more seriousness and less stupidity. Maybe I just like characters that don’t feel like cartoonish morons bumbling their way to victory. This was not for me at all. Consider me very underwhelmed and disappointed, it was a relief to finally finish because I found myself wanting to edit large parts of it which is never a good feeling. I want to get lost in a world, not feel like it needs re-writing. I am the minority here, there are very few negative reviews of this, and even fewer critical ones. For the right reader this clearly works, though I am not that reader. FBR | Twitter | Facebook | Insta | Academia