Now that was just silly.The book felt rushed and crammed of information that was spoon fed by plot devices (read: characters), and not shown by the tale itself. The parts that weren't rushed were fight descriptions, which unless they're really well done can bore me, and angsty lovey-dovey crap, which bore me unless there's an actual point to them- save for one or two parts that could have been shorter, I didn't think there was much of a point in them.As it were, I read it like:"Important stuff happened, important items were recovered, and potentially cool stuff happened, but rather than show you that let me skim over it and instead I'll make long musing rants about love and sex and how sad/happy character is to be not getting it/getting it. Oh, and here's a fight scene."What was the point of the Wolf telling Kylar how everyone's life would go? I'm fairly sure, given what he is, that he would have been able to see it by himself. Did Weeks not want to write one more chapter to show that same thing?And what about Uly's great great Talent? Is that leading anywhere or is it for another book?There's nothing I hate quite so much as characters that don't learn- particularly secret-keeping characters that don't learn after being screwed twenty times for keeping them, that they should not keep those secrets from their apprentices/people who help them.Youd think after the tenth time they'd just tell them everything, no? How stupid can they be?Despite that, the fact that there was no decent villain whatsoever, that some things were left unexplained, and that the ending was cliché and I did not really like it one bit (Khali could have been so much more, so much better! She was so lame at the end! Ugh!), I'm giving it two stars instead of one because, in a whole, the trilogy has great ideas and great plot points. It just... wasn't executed properly to the end, at least, for my own personal taste.In a whole, I would reread the first and second, but I would get rid of the third. It's just disappointing.