Storyline: 2/5Characters: 4/5Writing Style: 4/5World: 3/5I had made up my mind to dislike this before I started. I don't particularly enjoy children's or young adult books, and I didn't approve of the adolescent turn with the Harper Hall series. While Dragonsong was a perfectly acceptable children's version of the Dragonriders of Pern books, it was a simple recycling of the adult story for younger audiences. McCaffrey didn't make that mistake here. Essentially this is a coming-of-age, boarding school book set in Pern. We get to follow up with the main character from the first in this series, picking up right where we left off in Dragonsong. It is the characters that make this book so endearing and so difficult to dislike. There is a suffusion of warmth from the Harper characters. McCaffrey takes us along to Harper Hall with a 15-year old's viewpoint and all the anxieties, self-doubt, and worldviews that would have come with one with such a sheltered childhood. We (and by we I mean the reader through the main character of Menolly) meet and interact with the adults with the fear, awe, and uncertainty that would have marked such meetings. And what McCaffrey does so well is to slowly blur that line between adult and child. In my own life I find it takes a steady application of pressure to treat children as such. My inclination is to treat others as my equal, and when a child turns into an adolescent and approaches the young adult age it is difficult to judge when best to let up on that pressure and welcome the teenager into adulthood. McCaffrey offers the reader 15-year old girl's view of how adults negotiate this transition; and this was a treasure.I was also impressed with this as a work intended to empower women. I often find supposedly feminist texts to bring women down to the worst levels of men in order to promote equality. McCaffrey gives us a teenage girl who gets to see traditional gender roles in a wide range - strong, feminine women; sensitive, mischievous boys; dainty, timid girls; boorish, dimwitted boys; and hyper-masculine, male heroes. A mother figure supports Menolly in maintaining her own tomboyish identity while encouraging her to understand and embrace her femininity. A sage-like male figure tutors our adolescent heroine to tolerance, advising her that the old fogeys who would obstruct her because of her gender are people themselves, with more to their person than their sexist ways. What I approve of so whole-heartedly in this book was the message of empowerment and tolerance that refused to steer into radicalism and liberal bigotry. The life of artists and the community of the harpers was another real joy to experience in the book. McCaffrey again showed us the adolescent's worldview as the main character learns that all that seems wondrous is usually backed by the mundane. Artists live in the world, not apart from it, and from washing clothes to cooking or eating food, the life of the artist is more than performance. This even-handedness of McCaffrey's wasn't quite so even with some of the characterization. The good characters tend to be wholly good and the bad characters despicable. Also, while it was a joy to follow a character that was so earnest and self-effacing, the lack of pretensions and ambitions made the tale read as if aimless. There's nothing particular I wanted to happen for Menolly, save emotional approval and friendship. There's no overarching suspense of her achieving any of her goals because they're so modest. Thus the tale was a treasure for its warmth but did little to instill in the reader any aspirations or fears. I've long wanted to find a coming-of-age fantasy work that empowered girls in a positive and wholesome fashion. This was that book. It is unfortunate, however, that it is the 4th book in the overarching Pern series and the 2nd in the Harper Hall series. Thus it is not a book one can just drop into for a singular read.