"Don't mess with Texas"

"Eventually wisdom and reason will prevail."
This is, as best as it could get with a second book in a series. Thunderhead builds upon the solid foundation laid by Scythe, and sets the stage to a whole new series of events. I loved everything about this!
"There is a fine line between freedom and permission. The former is necessary. The latter is dangerous."
The first book of the series proved to be such an interesting read, which made me dive in to this one immediately. Author picks up where he left things off with Scythe, where Rowan had gone rogue and Citra became a scythe, and proceeds along the two plot lines for the first half of the book. The clear and immersive style of writing, the intriguing and unpredictable nature of the plot, are even better than the first. The plot is more complex, supported by a whole lot of new characters, including one main character. The somewhat simplistic representations of the characters which bothered me a little in Scythe has been completely fixed with this second book. Both Citra and Rowen are much more interesting, while the new, third main character being even better. Same goes for the villains, with their machinations far improved, instead of being limited to Goddard's mass gleanings like before.
"The end doesn't always justify the means, dear. But sometimes it does. Wisdom is knowing the difference."
The plot does take a significant change in direction from Scythe, but I found that to be a good thing. As the author had already exploited everything he could about Scythedom with the first book, it would've felt repetitive if the story continued only around the scythes. But, as the title implies, the focus is being re-directed to Thunderhead, and the aforementioned third new main character. It's difficult to explain more of the plot without mentioning the villains, which would introduce a major spoiler, so I'm going to stop at that.
"It is sad to live and die without knowing the truth of one's existence."
And that ending! Last few chapters are absolute pandemonium, until things ended with startling cliffhanger. Those who found Scythe's ending to be not eventful enough, will find that Thunderhead more than makes up for it. This series keeps getting better and better!

"Finding easy scapegoats for complicated problems had been a human pastime since the first mob of cavemen struck someone down with a rock."