actual rating: 4.5/5 stars For what it’s worth: trust your feelings. I can’t promise that you’ll never get hurt again, but I can promise you the risk is worth it. Well its safe to say that i'm really satisfied with how this trilogy ended and that all the loose ends were all tied up and that this story is finally finished for me.  Plot:  This last book starts off with a bang *literally* Sadie and Carter get themselves into a spot of trouble when trying to get one of the missing pages which results in the deaths of some trusted allies. I can say out of all three books this one was the one that has kept me interesting from beginning right up until the last page which i found the other two books lacked a little. Over the course of this series Sadie and Carter have matured so much from when we first meet them right up until them starting this final quest. I love how close these two have become and it's so nice to finally see a sibling duo work together to fight evil and kick some ass. These two characters are both flawed and unique in their own ways and its something that has drawn me to these characters but also i did take me the course of the 3 books to finally like these two. One thing that i love about Rick's books is that every riddle and question has an answer or multiple answers to it and it's always a game for me to try and find out what it is before its revealed but i'm yet to figure out a lot of things. I really didn't see Walt and Anubis working together and its one of the major things that i didn't pick up at all and i'm really kicking myself. It was kind of bittersweet and sad at the same time with how things ended but also lucky for Walt who was able to stay alive and host Anubis at the same time so i'm happy for Sadie. Everything was wrapped up really nicely in this last book and it went the way were i wanted things to go with everyone getting somewhat of a happy ending. Carter and Zia are finally starting the relationship that i was expecting to happen all the series same with Sadie and Walt being now able to start a relationship. I would actually like to see a cross over with Percy and these two characters and i'm not sure if it exists but if it does i will definitely getting my hands on that one!