*edit, a few years later* Please excuse the unrestrained, hysterical ranting below. It was late and I was twelve.--------AHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!! WHY DOES THIS HAVE TO BE ONLY A TRILOGY?!?!?!?!? DARN DARN DARN DARN DARN!!!!!!!!!!! 5 OR AT LEAST 4 BOOKS PLEEEAAAAAAAAAZEEEEEE RICK RIORDAN!!!!!!!!!!!!! MORE MORE MORE!!!!!!! S&A S&A S&AS&AS&AS&AS&AS&AS&A ARGH ARGH ARGH ARGH ARGH ARGH!!!!!!!! "The Kane Chronicles is currently set to be a trilogy, making this the final installment. It is currently untitled and is set to release in Spring of 2012." ARGHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FOLLOW UP SERIES!!!!!!!! NEED ONE!!!!! BAD!!!!!!!May first! May first! Maaayyyyfiiiirrrrrrst!!!!!So is anyone Team A? A lot of people are Team W, and I admit, that does seem the likelier of the two. IT CAME OUT TODAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Oh, please, please, please, please, PLEASE let me read this soon!!!!!! D: D: D: I'M READING IT I'M READING IT I'M READING IT I'M ACTUALLY READING IT!!!!*UPDATE: READ*So....it's been about a month since I've read the book. Terrible. And I have yet to write a review! (A real review, I mean, not like the gibberish up there. *cringes*) Well, I WAS in Seattle with limited internet connection. And there would have been no time to sit down and write a review. So I guess that's my excuse.But I'm back and I don't have an excuse now! So here goes.This was the last book of the trilogy, and also the shortest one. I was moaning over that to other people (mainly my unsympathetic parents) as I read it. Still, it was reaaallly good. It was also probably the darkest of the Kane Chronicles, perhaps even darker than the Percy Jackson and Heroes of Olympus books, as it mentioned lots of deaths (most of them very minor characters) and even some torture, which wasn't graphic in any way--it wasn't narrated, just mentioned--but which served to give a darker feeling overall.I've mentioned before somewhere that I never give Rick Riordan books any less than five stars, (unless they're really and truly awful, and I haven't come across any like that yet) even if they're more of a four stars. I'd give this a 4.5. I liked how certain characters--mostly Walt--were made more 3D. (Does that make any sense?) In The Throne of Fire, the book before this, one of the reasons I hated the possibility of Sadie and Walt together was because Walt seemed so...not real. Predictable. Boring. But Uncle Rick apparently worked on making him more believable, because I was able to sympathize a lot more with him. The plot seemed to be mostly the same as other books--you know, the enemy threatens Carter and Sadie, they try and find a way to destroy him, which takes most of the book, and then there is a fight at the end that temporarily destroys--or wipes out--the enemy. All of this was the same, except for the battle at the end. There was so much focus on other things that happened in the book (quite a bit of it was love triangle drama) that when the battle to get rid of the enemy finally rolled around, and they defeated the serpent (what? You knew they would!), I felt kind of...cheated. I thought, "Really? It just happened? Wait, wasn't there something more?" Because the two books before had a lot more tension and drama (drama relating to the battle, I mean) leading up to the climax, it just seemed a lot less impressive. The end of the book made it so obvious that Rick is leaving the door open for a follow-up series, like he did with Percy Jackson. In fact, it was even more obvious in this book than in the last Percy Jackson book. The Serpent's Shadow ends on pretty much the same notes as The Red Pyramid, now that I think about it, except with a less obvious threat. The love triangle. Aargh. How I hate those. If only Riordan didn't put it in. (But that'd erase, like, fifty pages of the book.) But, oh well, he did. And I must say, I wasn't entirely satisfied with the way it concluded. It seemed so predictable. I won't say any more, because I know if I was reading this, I would be freaking out. "Oh NO! Does that mean that ___ gets Sadie??!" (Sadie would probably hate that way of telling it, but really, what other ways are there to describe it?) (Actually, there are several, but that's the one I'm going to use. Sorry, Sadie.) So, no more. But it really wasn't an awful way of dealing with it, just a bit...weird. And predictable. (ZIP IT, ME!)Minor spoiler ahead--a sort of easter egg not important to the plot in any way, but I liked discovering it for myself.*SPOILER AHEAD!*There was this really funny part in the book where Sadie is at a school dance (I know--"school dance?!" It's not as bad as it sounds, really) and she runs into an enemy of hers, a classmate at school, named Drew. This Drew is a total fashion diva/mean girl pretending to be nice girl/makeup-obsessed...person. She's the sort of girl that calls you "hon" and "sweetie" after lots of not-so-subtle insults pretending to be disguised as compliments are hurled your way. She also has long curls and pink eyeliner.Does any of that sound familiar? If you've read The Lost Hero, it should be! This Drew is the exact same Drew that Piper McLean from TLH disagreed with at Camp Half-Blood. (She doesn't seem to have changed much. Or at all.) Sadie also finds a friend of hers from the same school named Lacey, with blonde pigtails and braces. The same Lacey from the Aphrodite cabin! I was about halfway through the scene, wondering, "is this the same Drew? Is it?" when Lacey mentioned some disagreement with Drew at a summer camp, and I knew it had to be the same ones. Hilarious. Oh, wait, and did I mention Anubis shows up at the dance? I nearly died laughing. Again. *SPOILER OVER*Winding down, finally, this was, on the whole, a very good conclusion. Especially with the almost-promise of another series! It wasn't everything I hoped for, but it was pretty darn close. Oh my gosh, this review is insanely long.