I honestly think these books should be required reading for any aspiring fantasy author. And more than a few published fantasy authors. It's just a masterclass in fantastical storytelling.This is the third in the Queen's Thief series, and so far it's the strongest. The story is primarily told from the perspective of Costis, an Attolian soldier. In less skilled hands, this switch in perspective could have been disastrous. Instead, in Whalen Turner's more than capable hands, it reinvigorates a series that I didn't even think needed reinvigorating!Looking back at the series as a whole, I get why Whalen Turner made the choice to distance the reader from Eugenides, who we've followed closely through two previous books. In this installment, Gen feels isolated and alienated. The perspective switch is a smart way to mirror these feelings in the reader without turning them off the book, without making them feel alienated from the book itself. It's just... So good. And by choosing Costis as our new perspective, Whalen Turner simultaneously expands the world and adds nuance and complexity to the plot. The previous books were focused on the upper echelons of society--kings and queens, courtiers and court advisors. Costis is a solider, and seeing the more intimate details of his world in turn expands the greater world of the Queen's Thief series.It also adds nuance to what could have easily become a standard formula for Whalen Turner. We know Gen, we love Gen, and it is incredibly fun watching him scheme his way to success. In book two, The Queen's Thief, Whalen Turner subverts our expectations by having Gen fail utterly, fail spectacularly. But how could she possibly do that again in book three? Enter Costis. By giving the Attolian people a stand-in perspective, suddenly the Attolians aren't just simple antagonists to stand in opposition to Gen. We see their perspective, understand their hesitations and even hatred for Gen. It makes Gen's new challenges all the more complicated, and the story all the more compelling.I could go on, and on, and on, about these books. The short of it? They are absolutely brilliant.