2.5 STARSWhat the hell happened here? This was supposed to become one of my favourite series, and then I read this travesty?? Eating Shredded Wheat is a more exciting experience than reading this, a reality which is even more shocking considering how excited I was to start this book. I absolutely loved The Queen of Attolia, but unfortunately this instalment had none of its predecessor’s charm. It wasn’t even that similar to the first of the series which at least merited a more solid three stars. There are some similarities between all three, namely they all involve an attempt at a clever plot accompanied by a shocking reveal at the end. The key word here is ‘attempt’. While the second book convincingly pulled off a tightly plotted story, this one most definitely did not. It’s something everyone is aware of when they start a long series; will all the books be able to maintain the same quality or will one full victim to the dreaded middle-book-filler-syndrome? If I was aware of how much this series would fluctuate in quality from the start, I don’t think I would have bothered giving it the time of day at all. On to the main man of the series, Eugenides. So this guy has always had an unrealistically high sense of perception about the other characters and an alarmingly accurate sense of foresight, you know, of the kind you only ever find in literary characters. However, this book took Gen’s omnipotence to whole new levels, to the extent that it just smacked of lazy writing. Indeed, his entire characterisation was insufferable in so many ways. All the traits that I had found so endearing in the previous novels were taken way too far in this one. This probably wasn’t helped by the fact that the story shifts from Gen’s perspective to the perspective of the most boring, unimportant soldier the author could have possibly come up with. It was like she was trying to bore me? The soldier literally has no personality but we are now forced to follow him around all day. Every. Single. Day. Even if my life depended on it, I still wouldn’t be able to recall this dude’s name. Not only was this incredibly boring, but it also meant that we didn’t get any scenes of Attolia and Gen alone and this is the one thing I was looking forward to most after the ending of book two. It was frustrating to say the least and made me want to demand my money back, having naturally assumed when I purchased this book that because the title was The King of Attolia it would be from the perspective of the King of Attolia. It should be renamed random solider number 5 you won’t give two shits about. Despite being longer than the second book, this one covered a fraction of the plot so no wonder it was always a struggle to pick it back again. Ultimately, I felt as if nothing had really changed across the course of the novel. Attolia was in pretty much the same position at the start of the book as it was by the end, and this whole book felt pointless. The fact that I still gave this three stars is a testament to how much I admired the author’s plotting in the previous book, because, honestly, even three stars is erring on the generous here.