“Why can’t you act like a proper king?”The most difficult thing about this book was trying to understand why is Eugenides behaving like an idiot all of a sudden.In King of Attolia we follow our thief and his royal wife through the eyes of Costis, a young member of the Queen’s Guard. Now, Costis is a darling, bless his heart. He is honourable, very straightforward and idealistic (is that how you spell naive?), so you can imagine what kind of a narrator is our guide through the confusing maze of courtly intrigues. We meet this young man when he is awaiting punishment for punching Eugenides in the face. Yes, Costis unabashedly, wholeheartedly, and consequences be damned, hates the guts of the “goatfoot” who tricked Attolia into marrying him. And to be honest, as we start the book, it is very hard not to share Costis’ derision and lack of respect.After reading The Thief I had the impression that the Queen’s Thief series will be a light, pleasant, but not too complicated coming-to-age story with a nice hero and not very fast, though exciting, plot. How terribly wrong I was! The Queen of Attolia changed my perspective, and King of Attolia only reinforced it.The outsider’s view on Gen (and Attolia), allows us to see both of them in an entirely new light, and this change of perspective is particularly rewarding when it comes to the Thief. We had two books already to help us grow a soft spot for him, and so to see Gen bared naked and without the saving grace of any positive bias is so refreshing. The young soldier has no insight into the schemes and games played by Eugenides and Queen Attolia (nor does the reader, with the latter having an advantage over Costis because we at least already know the Thief’s intelligence and cunning). Contrasting such straightforwardness with Gen’s multilayered guile is extremely entertaining (albeit also a bit aggravating at times). It prevents the reader from making presuppositions, which would result in boredom. Personally, I love to witness the actions of intelligent, cunning protagonists, especially when most of the time, they put on a mask and use deception, which enables them to fool everyone around them. I also love watching the reaction and shock of the other characters when they discover what was truly going on, beyond all the appearances.The good news is that there are several such moments in the book, and more than once, I snickered when the world turned upside down for this or that member of the royal court. And although this time the scale of events is smaller, as we are limited to the capital of Attolia, there is no shortage of political intrigues, and they seem to be both more complicated and far reaching. Minuses? Some people may have a problem with the slow development of action, because the book is not filled with spectacular battles, the plot is not dense, and there is virtually no magic (supernatural elements are limited to occasional visits by the gods). The romance might be a downer for others. Also, at this stage, Thief's genius renders the book predictable in the long run.Still, I was completely stolen by Eugenides. Long may he reign. Also in the series: 1. The Thief ★★★★☆2. The Queen of Attolia ★★★★★4. The Conspiracy of Kings ★★★☆☆5. Thick as Thieves ★★★☆☆6. Return of the Thief ★★★☆☆