**Reread 2022 3.5 StarsI still think this book is good. But I will admit that I didn’t love it as much upon the reread. This was my favourite book in the series but I now think that The Queen of Attolia is better in many ways. I’ll leave my original review below. All I really have to add is that I still love Eugenides all these years later. I’m not looking forward to the next two books as much as I don’t remember them being as good, mainly due to the lack of Eugenides. But I really want to read the last book and finally get some closure on this series and say goodbye to the most beloved Thief. **Firstly I would like to commend Megan Whalen Turner for making a bold change here in the third book in a series. She introduces a new character, Costis, and has the story told mainly from his perspective. This is a very significant change as if you read pretty much any reviews for the previous two books, you’ll know how much everyone loves the main character of Eugenides. And that’s for good reason. Why, you may ask would the author do something as bold as change the main POV halfway through as series. And did it pay off? As to why she did it, I can’t obviously know. What I do know is that it was an incredibly risky move on her part and paid off beautifully. Eugenides is still the focal point of this story and he is constantly on the page. But for the importance of the plot of this one, we are not to see inside his head, therefore no POV. Personally I really enjoyed Costis and thought him an interesting character with plenty of loyalty for someone he finds worthy. But he is very different from Eugenides. I think it’s important to note that by now after two books the reader is accustomed to the way in which Eugenides works and manoeuvres. We know that he hides many parts of himself, he is a fantastic actor, can pull of the impossible and has complete faith in himself that he can pull it off. He is also a bratty child at times, although if I’m honest these are the times I love him the most. As I was saying, we know by now that everything he does, he does for a reason. If he makes himself look like a fool, he is doing it for a greater cause than you may guess, after all he hates to be embarrassed. As we know how he behaves, this new way of narrating the story keeps the character fresh. You get to see Gen through another’s eyes. Someone who doesn’t know what he is like. Someone who is innocent to his manipulation and his games. It really added something to the story because just like Costis, you don’t know the game that Eugenides is playing, only that he is playing one. Boy you can tell when Phee really likes a book can’t you, I start writing essays. Anyway I loved this book for so many different reasons. But it did, as mentioned earlier, have a few drawbacks. Firstly was the plot. For large portions of the book nothing was happening. It brought the pace down and let book down a little. I can deal with slow books no problem, I was just expecting more action and something big to go down. Which it sort of did, but sort of different. It’s like when you get to the final boss in a video game and all this story and build up has you pumped for an awesome fight and then the boss is super easy. Yeah that’s what it felt like. Another, somewhat slight issue I had was the lack of the storytelling element that I have loved in the previous books. There was only one instance of that sit down and tell a story in this book. Eugenides was poorly and having a bratty moment demanding someone tell him a story before he goes back to sleep. I wish we had a couple more of those moments but sadly they were lacking. Also I’d like to add that once again the narrator for the audiobook, Steve West, did a fantastic job. Eugenides wouldn’t be quite the same for me with him. Every sly word and every whine is made more perfect with the narration. Truly a top job. I think I’ll just leave you with a characters description of Gen which I think sums him up perfectly. “He whines, he complains, he ducks out of the most obvious responsibility. He is vain, petty, and maddening, but he doesn’t ever quit, ever. I have never seen him, in the end, lose. He just persists until he comes out ahead. No match is finished for him until he has won. He won’t quit