* I read this as my Defence Against The Dark Arts OWL read *This is a story which I think is a little hard to really describe as it tells the story in a fairly unique way. The book is divided into three main narrators, we have: Talon, a mimic who can take on the memories and skin of those she has killed; Kihrin, the real main character of the story who is telling his side of things; and another character who infrequently gives his opinions and any extra information needed to the reader on the events that the other two are discussing. The book is a little bit difficult to get into at first becuase of the various viewpoints I think, and becuase not only are the viewpoints different, but the timeline of the story they are discussing (although that of the same person) are different and connect only later in the book. For that reason, combined with the fact that this is very much epic fantasy and has a whole host of characters to remember and get to know, means this is not for everyone. However, with all that being said, once I got into this it was good. I really liked the world and the magic and the vast empire and lands we span. There are different types of people that we meet like those who live in the poorer districts and work as thieves/thugs and brothel slaves or workers. We then meet the upper classes and the families who rule the empire in terms of power and wealth if not in name. They are devious and deadly and have constant schemes. We meet sorcerers, warriors, slaves, and the Black Brotherhood. We meet dragons and demons and spirits and magic-wielders, people who have died and come back, people who have had their souls ripped to shreds and even gods. There is SO much going on at all times that it can be tricky to follow, but it's worth it becuase it's such a complex world of worlds and I really do think it's worth the read.I will highly recommend the audiobook as that is how I consumed this and it really helped me to learn who was who and keep them distinct as there are multiple narrators. I am confident that the story was made easier because the narrators were different, and I think it would certainly help people to listen rather than read if there is any confusion. On the whole, I think that's all I really want to say about this one because it's hard to describe and it's one I think worth discovering for yourself. I do think that the middle was my favourite section and although the beginning is a bit slow and overwhelming it's worth sticking with it as it gets really good in the mid-sections and pretty over the top dramatic and crazy in the end. There's a lot of political scheming and adventures and it's a story I do recommend if you have read and enjoyed other great big epic fantasy stories. 4*s from me :)