4.25⭐'s"As a historian, I have learned that, in fact, not everyone who reaches back into history can survive it. And it is not only reaching back that endangers us; sometimes history itself reaches inexorably forward for us with its shadowy claw.”Initial ThoughtsHappy New Year, Happy New book as they say. Step forward Elizabeth Kostova with The Historian.I'm on a mission to burn through a big chunk of the books on my bookshelf (a lot of them on that Kindle electronic bookshelf) before I splurge any cash on new ones. An almost impossible task as all you fellow book horders know. But when someone buys you a fantastic gift in a Secret Santa what's a guy to do? Particularly when you're a die hard fan of the most famous of horror icons...the fangtastic count himself... Dracula!I've not heard a great deal about the author of The Historian, Elizabeth Kostova, other than she was the author of this book. I did know that it is an investigation of the Dracula and vampire mythos based on historical events, and that is cool with me. Anything other than that sparkly Twilight garbage that is so envogue at the minute. It pains me to see what Stephanie Meyer has done to my beloved bloodsucking fiends. If you like that kind of stuff I make no apologies, I'm not a teenage girl after all.Anyway, on with the review.The Story Although the premise is simple, uncovering the true history of Dracula (AKA Vlad "the Impaler" Tepes) and the location of his tomb, the narrative is anything but. Theres multiple timelines going on as the story follows three generations of historians investigating the mythos who have received mysterious books that bear the mark of "Drakulya"The story is told from the perspective of the young unamed daughter of a diplomat, living in Amsterdam. When her father goes missing and she discovers a collection of letters in her father's study after he mysteriously leaves her during a trip to England. I know we all dream of ditching our kids sometimes but this guy actually goes and does it. What a hero! And daughter soon discovers that uncovering the truth behind Dracula is somewhat of a life or death obsession for father, and in order to find him she is going to have to uncover the truth behind the legend.This is where we get the bulk of the story that takes place over twenty years prior. The letters detail the travels of her father, Paul, and his love interest and fellow academic Helen Rossi through Turkey and Eastern Europe searching for his adviser, Professor Bartholomew Rossi, who mysteriously disappeared. This then leads to a further story within a story as we get the backstory behind how Professor Rossi became entangled in this most dangerous of webs. Yes, he was someone else digging about in the whereabouts of the body of Vlad Tepes. It is rivetting stuff, but that's as much as you're getting out of me.The Writing The Historian is a big ass book with a lot of detail and a pretty complex plot. It is not easy Sunday reading and requires a good bit of investment to get the rewards from it. It's pretty slow, particularly in the first half, but beautifully written. Kostova's skill at creating mood and atmosphere is certainly impressive and her knowledge on the vampire mythos and medieval history surrounding it is outstanding.It adopts a style that is very reminiscent of the original Dracula by Bram Stoker with the letters and personal accounts, and this was something I really appreciated as it complements it so well. It began to feel like I was someone investigating events that had really taken place, digging through recently discovered documents. I was fully immersed in this fantastically woven narrative and this is the novels real strength in how authentic it is. You can really begin to feel that this is something that just could have happened.In terms of the horror, there are some very creepy and atmospheric scenes but these are scattered throughout this huge narrative. So don't be expecting a shock to the system every other page. It's more about the history and mystery so bear that in mind if you're after some excessive gore. It is definitely not that type of book On the negative side, it does get a bit long-winded in places with lavish and exuberant description of places and locations. It is beautifully written but has an extreme level of detail. At times it really makes you feel like you're there but other times it does begin to feel like a travelguide. I know there's a lot of readers that can't handle this slower pace so just wanted to get that out there."The very worst impulses of humankind can survive generations, centuries, even millennia. And the best of our individual efforts can die with us at the end of a single lifetime."The Characters You know me by now, I'll be brutally honest about my perceived flaws in a novel and the Historian is without doubt a plot driven experience. The characters are there to advance the story and there isn't a huge amount of depth to any of them apart from Helen Rossi, who had a fair bit of intrigue and mystery surrounding her. It's certainly not a Stephen King level of character development and I would have appreciated a little more detail.But with the way the story is delivered, through letters and first hand accounts, it may just have not been possible to do this in a believable way. The novel certainly succeeds despite the minimal character work based on how engaging that narrative is. So I wouldn't let that put you off.Final ThoughtsBloody hell this review is getting long. A bit like something else. I mean the Historian of course. At seven hundred pages it is a beast, but although not initially rewarding if you stick with it you'll find a satisfying experience. That's if you want to be a vampire detective for a couple of weeks searching for clues amongst historic documents in vaulted libraries. It makes it cool to be a history geek in the same way the Da Vinci code did, but with a horror flavour.The ending however was a touch lackluster. After all that careful planning and setting up the resolution felt rushed. The threat is dealt with way too quickly after all that build up. But as my man Stephen King often says the joy is in the journey and not in the destination.What this book is, is a fantastic homage to the original Dracula that certainly achieves it's goal of paying tribute to that man Bram Stoker. It puts vampires back where they belong after years of that Twilight nonsense and that is nothing but a good thing.Anyway, if you've got a spare couple of weeks give it ago. Just be prepared to give it a fair chance.And thanks for reading...cheers!"As you know, human history is full of evil deeds, and maybe we ought to think of them with tears, not fascination."