I had no idea what was happening for 90% of this book, but guess what? I did not give a fuck. I knew something was going to lead to something else, and I knew the story would have gorgeous lyrical writing, and I knew there would be a gay romance. That’s enough for me. Honestly, I really considered putting this book off for a while because I had made no progress whatsoever. It took me about three weeks to read this book and it put me in a reading slump - hence the reason I took off one star, because I would have enjoyed everything else if I’d been able to genuinely read. But I still loved it, and I loved the experience.“Strange, isn’t it? To love a book. When the words on the pages become so precious that they feel like part of your own history because they are.”The writing of this book was so metaphorical, trippy and lyrical, and I fell in love. It was a little bit weird to get used to at first, because there were a lot of run-on sentences and different expressions, but once I did I could understand why it was written like that.It was kind of weird to read descriptions that came across so strangely, but I honestly loved it. I thought the writing was beautiful and unique without sounding too contrived. It was almost poetic, without all the extra enter spaces.“I’m agnostopagan.”The Keeper cocks his head questioningly.“Spiritual but not religious,” Zachary clarifies. He doesn’t say what he is thinking, which is that his church is held-breath story listening and late-night-concert ear-ringing rapture and perfect-boss fight-button pressing. That his religion is buried in the silence of freshly fallen snow, in a carefully crafted cocktail, in between the pages of a book somewhere after the beginning but before the ending.”I feel like the way the writing fit so well with the story and the character’s thoughts was so perfect. If you’ve ever read The Night Circus, it’s a bit like that? But it’s less descriptive and more metaphorical, and it goes by its own standards. The Night Circus feels like it fits more traditionally compared to the writing of this book.I did find it a little bit annoying at first. I loved it, don’t get me wrong, but it kind of grated on me to read commas where I anticipated periods, or a sentence that didn’t really follow the structure that I’m used to.“Everything whispers the story here, the sea and the bees whisper and I listen and I try to find the shape of it all. Where it has been and where it is going. New stories wrap themselves around the old ones. The ancient stories that flames whisper to moths.”I think that style was very fitting for the book, though.There were a lot of parentheses and strange comparisons that make sense in a way that pretty much no one has thought of before, and I think that’s one of the reasons that everything in this book felt so connected. There were so many stories and connections and tie-overs that I just felt so disoriented, and everything seemed so disjointed, but you could tell that it was leading to what would really tie it all together. If I were to say it in a Starless Sea-esque way, it’s like this book showed me all the strings individually before being led to the knot that wove them together.“He has brown eyes but his hair is blond, she has read so many books where blond hair goes with blue eyes that she finds it incongruous. His face is so much more than hair and eye color, she wonders why books do not describe the curves of noses or the length of eyelashes. She studies the shape of his lips. Perhaps a face is too complicated to capture in words.”The storyline threw me off a little bit, since I wasn’t sure what was happening. I could tell it was leading up to something, since there were so many bits interspersed in, but I wasn’t entirely sure what the book was about.This book begins with our main character, Zachary Ezra Rawlins, finding a strange unmarked book in the library. As he reads, he finds a story in it that he knows - because it’s a scene from his childhood. This takes him on a long journey, uncovers a few secrets that probably shouldn’t have existed in the first place, and brings him to meet a few people.“Is this all in my head?” Zachary asks as they twirl amongst the golden crowd. “Am I making all of this up?”“If you were, whatever answer I gave you would also be made up, wouldn’t it?” Mirabel answers.”The plot blends from Zachary’s perspective through the stories of Sweet Sorrows, the book he found. The fables and stories being interwoven with the basic storyline gradually became more complex as other stories came up and characters were brought in.I have to be honest, the plot was pretty slow. It took me a lot of time to get through forty percent of the book, and when I got there I needed to go through all the rave reviews of this book to motivate myself further. I know I’ve advocated for The Night Circus to a lot of people, but now I see their side of it. It’s a lot less enjoyable.“It shouldn’t be too long to walk,” Mirabel says. “Sorry it’s so poetry today.”“So what?” Zachary asks, not certain he heard her correctly.“Poetry,” Mirabel repeats. “The weather. It’s like a poem. Where each word is more than one thing at once and everything’s a metaphor. The meaning condensed into rhythm and sound and the spaces between sentences. It’s all intense and sharp, like the cold and the wind.”“You could just say it’s cold out.”“I could.”The characters were all so unique. They were just completely their own creation. Or Erin Morgenstern’s creations.Zachary Ezra Rawlins is always introduced by his full name whenever his perspective starts. He’s a college student in Vermont who likes RPGs and books, and his mother is a fortune-teller. He’s our main character. Zachary is very relatable in his awkwardness, and his perspective was so much fun to read. I loved that he was, in book terms, a dreamer.His development was subtle and wasn’t really a change of character more than a slow nuance of who he was in the story. It was intriguing to be in his head and to find so much of a story in one character.“He opens the door and steps through it. And so the son of the fortune-teller finds his way to the Starless Sea.”Mirabel was a fun character. I liked how very casual and do-it-my-own way she was. She seemed like she literally did not give a fuck for half the book, which made her secrets very interesting. Also, I loved her pink hair.“She sat next to me and told me that we were the people that the narrative would have followed out from the party if we were in a movie or a novel or something. We were where the story was, the story you could follow like a string, not all the overlapping party stories in the house, tangled up with too many dramas soaked in cheap alcohol and stuffed into not enough rooms.”Dorian was beautiful. He was such a rich character and I loved his storytelling abilities. He drew me in and made me really want to know his secrets, because he was one of those very naturally mysterious people.“This is where the moon goes when she cannot be seen in the sky,” Dorian slowly breathes each word against Zachary’s lips.”Kat was a very interesting character who I expected would be minor and thrown in at the beginning, but then she came back into the narrative. I’m not complaining. She was fun and quirky (but not in a bad way, I mean she just legitimately had a fun personality) and she was willing to knit Hogwarts scarfs. I’m sold.“Not all stories speak to all listeners, but all listeners can find a story that does, somewhere, sometime. In one form or another.”The emotional depth to literally everything in this book, from the writing to the metaphors to the characters, was shocking. I never thought honey or fireplaces or a dollhouse would move me, especially not fictional honey/fireplaces/dollhouses, but somehow they did.I was shook at how Erin Morgenstern made metaphors out of things that I didn’t even know worked as book objects, and then made me feel something for them. I love my library, but I didn’t ever think reading about a library would make me feel emotional.“The bulb breaks with a soft cracking noise and takes the light with it, leaving Zachary alone in the dark with the charred remains of a miniature universe.”This book is about stories. It’s really not about Zachary, or his life, or the underground realm he finds. It’s not about his love of video games and Dorian. It’s about storytelling. It’s about how characters and their choices can change the path of a story, how narratives can be altered by one moment, and how entire universes can exist in our minds just because of the words on the page.“You knew that would happen,” he says. “You made all of this happen.”“I did not. I gave you doors. You chose whether or not you opened them. I don’t write the story, I only nudge it in different directions.”The fables blew me away. I thought writing a book was hard enough, but somehow Erin Morgenstern created a collection of fairy tales and added them into this book as part of another book? The Owl King, the three swords, and the innkeeper felt like they were real tales, not just invented for this book.“I have never met a girl who wears trousers before,” he says, hoping she does not take offense.“I can’t climb things in a dress,” Eleanor explains, as though stating a simple fact.“Climbing is not for girls.”“Anything is for girls.”Sweet Sorrow, Fortunes and Fables, The Ballad of Simon and Eleanor, and The Owl King were all books within this book, and they blew me away. This was literally five books in one.He wonders if he has stumbled upon a place where girls do not play games, where there are not unspoken rules to follow. No expectations. No chaperones. He wonders if his mother was like that. Wonders what makes a woman a witch.”The romance was perfectly gay (that’s a good thing). It progressed very slowly and subtly, but enough that you could tell something was happening. There was also no love triangle (YES).“It is easier to be in love in a room with closed doors. To have the whole world in one room. One person. The universe condensed and intensified and burning, bright and alive and electric.”The one complaint that I had was that it went very slowly. It was nice that the romance wasn’t the center of the book and that everything was plot-focused, but it felt like there was a lot of time between each romantic moment. That made it a lot easier to forget about and kind of took away from the process of really shipping those two.“Something changes in the laughter, something is lost and something else is found and though Zachary does not have words for what has happened, there is an ease between them that wasn’t there before.”That being said, the romance was very sweet, even though I feel like it didn’t get enough of a chance to develop properly. The chemistry, although it took a while to get there, was done really well and I couldn’t help loving the dynamic between these two.“I need you to know that what I feel for you is real. Because I think you feel the same. I have lost a lot of things and I don’t want to lose this, too.”I think the worst part about the romance (although like I said, it was executed pretty well) was that these two didn’t know each other very well. They met, then got separated, then didn’t really spend a lot of time together before love started up. I feel like they didn’t get to understand each other (aside from their nearly-automatic connection that kind of bothered me but was also pretty nice).“There is a warmness to the brown of Dorian’s eyes that he had not been able to see before. There is a scar above his left eyebrow. There are so many pieces to a person. So many small stories and so few opportunities to read them. I would like to look at you seems like such an awkward request.”Other than that, the romance was beautiful and I loved the dynamic that developed between Zachary and Dorian. Their relationship at the end was just...so worth it.“If…if anything happens—”“Don’t you dare,” Dorian interrupts him. “Don’t you dare make this goodbye. I am going to find you. We are going to find each other and we are going to figure this out together. You may be by yourself but you are not alone.”“It’s dangerous to go alone,” Zachary says, almost automatically.”I loved how this book addressed escapism. It validates everyone who prefers books or games or movies to the real world, and gives you a portal to a realm where that’s normal and appreciated. It validates feeling like you belong to a fictional world instead of the real one.“These doors will sing. Silent siren songs for those who seek what lies behind them.For those who feel homesick for a place they’ve never been to.Those who seek even if they do not know what (or where) it is that they are seeking.Those who seek will find.Their doors have been waiting for them.”The Starless Sea is a whole realm of stories. This book is a whole world made just for all of us readers and nerds. I love it. I love how it combined an entire journey of self-discovery with a library and fairy tales and a few strange metaphors, and it was gorgeous.“For a while I was looking for a person but I didn't find them and after that I was looking for myself. Now that I've found me I'm back to exploring, which is what I was doing in the first place before I was doing anything else and I think I was supposed to be exploring all along.”“How are you feeling? Zachary asks.“Like I’m losing my mind but in a slow, achingly beautiful sort of way.”That’s the experience I had while reading this book. Everything was assembled so painstakingly and yet beautifully, and I couldn’t wrap my head around it for 90% of the time.“Be brave,” she says. “Be bold. Be loud. Never change for anyone but yourself. Any soul worth their star-stuff will take the whole package as is and however it grows. Don’t waste your time on anyone who doesn’t believe you when you tell them how you feel.”Overall, this read was worth the long experience and consequent reading slump. It’s not really for everyone, because of its unique style, but I think it’s better-received than The Night Circus. Still, I really liked it and would have rated it five stars if it hadn’t been as slow. That was part of the journey, though - the long, controlled build of the story. It’s drawn out, but exciting.“But the world is strange and endings are not truly endings no matter how the stars might wish it so.”