Reading an Erin Morgenstern book is like dreaming with your eyes open. There's something so profoundly beautiful about The Starless Sea that I don't quite know how to put into words. “Strange, isn’t it? To love a book. When the words on the pages become so precious that they feel like part of your own history because they are.”This book tells the story of Zachary Ezra Rawlins (I mean, that's already the best name ever), who is an ordinary book nerd like you and I. One day, he stumbles upon a peculiar book, and as he reads on, he realizes that the story is about him. So, like any ordinary person who secretly craves an adventure to escape their bland, plain regular people life - he's up and away, going on a journey to find out what is the case with this mysterious discovery and determined to visit the Starless Sea, the place that his own story seems to lead him to.Oh, how beautiful and heart-shattering it is, to love a book this deeply. Parting with it was an overly sorrowful experience. Even though I thought Erin Morgenstern did everything wonderfully, I ended the book sobbing like a teenage girl after their first heartbreak. Have you ever read words so beautiful they made you cry? Anyone who can do that, who can make you feel so devoutly just by giving you words on a paper, has become a master at their craft.Yes, the story takes some time to unfold, and yes, it may be confusing - but the purpose of this book is to draw you in slowly and reward you for your patience at the very end. For when everything falls so satisfyingly into place. If you're looking for something that you're reading for the purpose of being entertained at all times - The Starless Sea may not be for you. Because its strong suits are the writing and the tenderly crafted characters. This book is supposed to be for Logophiles, for lovers of words. If you can't appreciate the book for its writing but base it on action alone - you might find yourself lost in the tangles of words and stories here.incredible fanart by May, thank you for letting me use it ✨This book will stay with me forever not only because I'm a reader but because I'm a dreamer, too. The Starless Sea feels like an ode to people like me. People that want to believe in magic and can't be satisfied with everything that is ordinary. People that are looking, desperately, for their own door they can escape through, every day. People that will never lose hope that their own adventure is still out there, waiting for them. People that secretly believe that they are meant for something greater, something special, something that is indisputably out there for you. I will forever thank writers like Erin Morgenstern for making me feel like I belong. For creating characters I can find bits and pieces of myself in. For giving me a chance to escape my dull reality, at least for some time. For giving me the opportunity to go on adventures, though they may not fully be mine, until I can find my own one day. Thank you.“Not all stories speak to all listeners, but all listeners can find a story that does, somewhere, sometime. In one form or another.”🔑🐝🗡