Another epic, sweeping fantasy from the mastermind behind  The Priory of the Orange Tree and  The Bone Season series.Tunuva Melim is a sister of the Priory. Her calling is to protect the world from the inevitable rise of the Nameless One, a monster who sleeps in the fires of the Dreadmount.Glorian Berethnet is the princess of Inys and heir to her mother's throne, in a long line of female monarchs whose bloodline keeps the Nameless One at bay.Across the sea in Seiiki, Dumai has spent her life as a godsinger on Mount Ipyeda, a frigid and isolated world away from the politics of the throne room she may be destined for.Samantha Shannon weaves the three stories together, along with a few additional characters in each perspective, beautifully. She thrives in giving us rich and interesting people to follow who aren't without their flaws. When read as a character-driven story, this book excels. I think the plot, especially for a nearly 900 page book, does drag at times, despite each chapter giving us some additional piece of the overall puzzle.I enjoyed this book a lot, especially that it's a standalone prequel to Priory. Though I don't know if I *loved* it as much as I remember loving that one. I think there were certain perspectives in this story at times that got too much attention, while I would have preferred sticking to other storylines longer. I also found many of the plotpoints in this predictable and saw the 'twists' coming from a mile away. In fact, the plot to me is probably the weakest part of the story. Knowing it's a standalone, I assumed exactly how it would end from the start and it does just about that. Of course there are little moments here and there you don't necessarily know will happen until they do, but the overall arc of the story is pretty classic for fantasy.Definitely worth the read, but not one I think I would revisit any time soon, if ever again. However, I love her world-building and it does make me want to revisit Priory to see how I feel about it now and to make the connections with the information we receive in this prequel.