“One thing you will soon learn is that the name of the bride quickly disappears off the tongues of the people. Whoever leaves will be forgotten as ever being a part of this town. She will become the ‘Human Queen’ for stories and nothing more.”Elise Kova can do no wrong. I read Air Awakens and absolutely loved the series. When I heard about this book, I was nothing short of thrilled. Trust me, it’s worth it. The book is a very quick read and immensely satisfying. The perfect protagonist, the perfect plot for a standalone high- fantasy world, you simply can’t be disappointed. You know what to expect and the book delivers spectacularly.In the blurb, the book is compared to Uprooted and A Court of Thorns and Roses, both of which I’ve read, and I understand the comparison, but it also diverges from those books in a lot of ways, so if you didn’t like those I would still suggest reading this one. Uprooted doesn’t really feature many characters other than the protagonist and the dragon, which is one of the ways this book is so different from it because the characters interacting with the rest of the world is such a monumental part of the foundation of this book. A court of thorns and roses features antagonists in a fundamentally different way than this book, the problems and the adversities this book features are very unique and require very different attitudes from the characters. The basic similarity would be that a human girl is taken to a magical world, but besides that, it’s safe to say this book is a whole new avenue in its own right.The perfect protagonist. Luella is smart, brave, and curious, through her curious eyes the author is able to reveal so many intricacies of this world so much so that it feels like the world-building took place across a trilogy that didn’t explicitly focus on world-building, if that makes sense. She manages to introduce a depth to the world that I didn’t expect to feel with a standalone. Along the same lines, I also feel like the supporting characters added so much to the book in this short period, unexpected from a standalone. The perfect plot. I know of so many ways standalone plots tend to either be too complicated and begging to be spread out across a few books, and I know of plots that barely serve a purpose other than to bring the characters together. This book finds the sweet spot. You can tell that there was so much work put into the intricacies of this book because it is so easy to read yet so rich with details. Ideas flow together immaculately and the story moves forward naturally and gracefully. There was not one moment where I went, well that just shifted in another direction for no reason other than the plot didn’t feel substantial enough. If you’re looking for a quick read between series or just having to switch between book after reading a chapter or two, this is the perfect book for you. It will grab your attention from the very beginning and hold it to the very end. It doesn’t lag on unnecessary, cliche plot points that everyone sees coming from a mile away, it is well-paced and will take you to the next chapter quickly but will give you enough information so that you don’t feel like you’re only focusing on one point to resolve the plot. 5/5 from me, all fantasy and romance lovers should try it out, quick read, you will not put it down.