"To this world. To the next. To the people we meet between and the bonds we share."Rating: ⭐⭐Spice Meter: 🌶️❗This review contains minor spoilers.❗Aaaah, I had such high expectations for this one. I'm not going to lie to you guys, I am pretty disappointed. The synopsis was so promising, but the execution was underwhelming. I'm not saying I didn't enjoy it at all, though. It had its moments. Plus, (sort-of)-arranged-marriage is a decent enough trope I often enjoy ( Serpent & Dove really sold me on it), and everyone knows that enemies-to-lovers is the best trope in literature (not that it was well utilised but...🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️). Also, the cover is absolutely magnificent, I was practically bespelled to pick it up. (Yes, I do judge books by their covers. It didn't work out as well this time, but it won't stop me.) Everything else was pretty mediocre.I liked the idea behind this book, I really did. I just wish the results were more satisfying. I couldn't find it in myself to care much for what was happening to the characters or the plot. Everything felt pretty basic to me, to be completely honest. Its pace was all over the place and there were hardly any interesting sub-plots going on to really keep me going. Aside from Harrow's drug addiction, of course, which actually deserved to go into more detail. When there's a chance to represent important issues you take it, and you make sure they get the awareness they deserve. But alas, that didn't happen. On top of all that, the plot was also pretty predictable. Seriously, the whole plot was predictable and I doubt I found it all so obvious because of my intelligence...😝😝 Now, as far as the writing and dialogue go....cringe. Cringe, cringe, cringe. I rolled my eyes so many times I may have caused some damage. It was all just soo cheesy and cliche. Having said that, though, there were several moments in the book that got a genuine chuckle out of me or an awwwww.I spent more than half the book not caring about any of the characters. The only characters I genuinely liked were Hook, Rinni, and Willow, and aside from the pet wolf, (wolves are my weakness) I am fairly certain that I wouldn't bat an eye if any of them died. Yes, that's how little I cared about them. Eldas was one of the characters I couldn't bring myself to like much, at least for the first half of the book, mostly because not enough reason was given to do so other than he was the MC's love interest and he is on the cover. I did start to like him later on though, but that was because the romance kick-started by then and I'm always complete trash for it, even the cheesy one. I found Luella to be pretty underwhelming for the main character. She was blunt like stale bread. Nothing really stood out about her (other than she was a special human with powers), and I honestly think the book would have been more interesting if it was/had Eldas' POV. As far as chemistry goes...meh. Again, I was disappointed. It had so much potential to become an epic romance, yet fell short. I wasn't satisfied with the number of interactions between characters that could justify the closeness and familiarity between them. It was suggested in the book that Luella and Eldas interacted with each other 'behind the scenes' which is stupid given their necessity in character and relationship development. They basically went from hating each other's guts to crushing hard practically out of nowhere. I have to admit, though, they had some moments I genuinely found quite lovely.Elda's Bonus Scene:"Luella. My love. My Human Queen is radiant in the moonlight."Rating: ⭐⭐⭐,5Spice Meter: 🌶️ In all honesty, I liked the bonus scene more than the actual book. That may have something to do with me being complete trash for the pregnancy/baby trope. I don't entirely understand why, but there's just something about reading what the MCs are like as parents that fills me with joy. It's sort of like a guilty pleasure for me since I haven't actually met anyone who as this trope like I do, yet, except I don't feel any guilt about it.Also, the romance in this one was so much better than it was in the actual story. It even made me like Luella and Eldas more. It definitely affected me more. Why couldn't Elise Kova write it this way in the main story, too?? It could have been sooo goood. I know it's hard to avoid all the cliches and cheesy moments when writing romance, but come ooon, that was excessive...and cringy.Oooh, what could have been...