Oh wow, holy mother of bloody/gory damn hell on earth, Mars, Venus and Pluto! What did I just read??!!!!!This book surpassed the first quite evidently. It was clear from the beginning this would be a great book. The story picked up where the first book ended, but not quite. The story picks up with a several year gap, where the characters have recovered from the institute and are now members of the active society. They have had a chance to mature and become the people they were meant to be. I think this is what caught me of guard most. The young and relatively naive children of the first book are now the experienced adults with a hidden agenda.The book wasn't enthralling simply because it was exciting and nerve wrecking, but to me the unpredictability was so enticing. Just when you thought all is well, some major disaster strikes. That ending was the biggest plot twist ever. I mean yes I assumed that things wouldn't go so simple and easy, but I definitely did not expect THAT! I have complaints though, so so many! First of all, Roque, really? Kind hearted, faithful, poetic Roque?!?! He of all people should not have been the one to betray everything in the end. And then there was Victra, I mean yes, although I was ship mustang/Darrow, I fell in love with Victra all the same. There was a place in my heart for the feisty girl with a soft spot for the revolutionary trouble maker with a love for the smell of wet stone. I think her end is what outraged me the most in all of this. In reviewing the first book, I compared this to "game of thrones" and this book only proved how right that analogy was. The concept of betrayal and death gives this book a shark edge, one I've only ever seen in GOT. The anticipation of knowing anyone could betray anyone and that anyone could be killed by any other anyone was the true metaphorical experience of waking on a blades edge. It made every page as exciting as the first, and every sentence a plausible death or life decision. There is a general down to earth reality in the characters of this book that captured my attention since book one. It's like they understand that the deeper darker side of them is controlling them more times than not. It lead me to feel for the characters more than I have in most books that I have read. It's gives them a touch of realism that is ever so lacking in modern fiction. There is always darkness, it's just a matter of which side we fight harder to stay on. It's a constant struggle, they are not some magical heroes of morality born into the light, they are human beings struggling to understand what's right. Overall I adored this book, and yes even though I have been giving out a lot of high stars lately, I think this one is probably my favorite book since 2015. Can't wait to finish morning star and see what finally happens!!!!!!