3.75⭐️After the underwhelming and super unsatisfying Red Rising (which started out well then went downhills), Golden Son turned out to be a complete surprise in every aspect but one. And it would’ve been a solid 4⭐️ read, were it not for the characters.  The Plot:Golden Son continues with Darrow’s quest for vengeance and retribution and right off the bat, it started out with some much needed humbling and a vicious learning experience for him, which hyped me up for the rest of the book because the constant unstoppable successes he’d been having and the whole 'too good to lose' thing was seriously getting far too much and plain unrealistic (the boy desperately needed some lesson in humility). In comparison to RR, almost everything in Golden Son was a step up and I found the setup generally impressive. The stakes were higher, the need for vengeance even greater (though, personally, I didn't buy it), the balance of violence and the action was also a lot more even - with much more entertaining scenes of spaceship battles & combat with advanced weapons. We also find out a bit more about the Sons of Ares as well as the inner workings of the politics of the Golds, which I was pleased about.So, generally, sounds great right? NO. Because while I enjoyed the plot (still could've done with a lot more edge but ima let that slide), my hate for Darrow and the rest of the characters grew a considerable amount.The Characters:Heavens, how I hated them! Which I still can’t understand because this book had all the types of characters (layered, flawed and morally-grey) that I'm always drawn to without fail but for some reason, I couldn’t get behind… these bunch.Darrow:Darrow — "The young man chosen to be the saviour of his oppressed people on Mars. The secret hero of the Red rebellion" *eyes rolling*. What hero?? All I saw was a know-it-all, endlessly arrogant kid, who quite literally, thinks he's a gift to humanity. If not the gift. The road with him has been a difficult one, to put it mildly. And I will say this with absolute certainty - I would've enjoyed this book (series) a hell of a lot more if it’d been any other character but Darrow. I couldn’t stand him in Red Rising and I hated him even more in here.For starters, and this only made matters worse because I HATE first-person narratives (with a few exceptions), I had endless problems with how he talked about himself and the perpetually smug way in which he interacted with others, or how he'd let it be known that he's "not one to be crossed", like, get over yourself. I got so tired of being inside his head that at some point, I think I succumbed to my rage and simply screamed - 'Just shut up, already!' And those long-winded inner monologues about his constant inner struggles and “emotional distress” about what he’s doing and whether or not he's any different than the people he's trying to destroy. The majority of the book was spent on these constant back and forths with himself - Am I doing the right thing? have I gone too far? what makes me any different than the golds?Then in a matter of seconds, he'd contradict himself by going on and on about how this is what has to be done, fortune favours the brave, sacrifices must be made, to then only flip over and repeat the same thing over again after a few more chapters. It was exhausting and I did not care for it one bit, nor did I buy it. I get that this is an attempt to make his character appear more sympathetic despite all the shitty decisions he continues to make but, NO. It did not endear him to me and it only made him seem like an indecisive kid who didn’t know which way was up or... down.Another thing that got under my skin was the lack of subtlety in the “emotional” dialogues between him and the rest of the cast, which I found none of it to be convincing. all I saw in these characters was simply pride, arrogance and the need for control, which left me even more disconnected from them and the plot. Mustang:Mustang was… alright, under normal circumstances, I would’ve loved her. She’s an individual, smart, snarky, knows what she wants and stands by her decisions no matter how unpopular they may seem, so I don't understand why I couldn't connect with her. There was something so... exasperating and extremely arrogant about her that really got under my skin.I didn’t hate her, I simply didn’t like her. Sevro:Somebody tell me if I've read the same book as everyone else because I don't get the hype here and I feel like the whole appeal was completely lost on me. However, unlike, Mustang, I didn't dislike Sevro nor did I find him annoying in any way. He was actually my favourite character in the book (with the bar so low, however, I question myself whether or not this is a compliment). I just didn’t get… the appeal. Plus, he was barely in the picture and I didn't get the right amount of time with him as I did with the others.As for the rest of the characters, none is worth mentioning. With the exception of Lorn au Arcos, whom I really liked and who also gave me a plethora of reasons to hate Darrow even more. And since I can't get into it without spoiling some things, I'll just wrap this up right now.