5/5★★★★★What a fun Buddy Read with team Howlers; Speedy eye Oppa, Whorefart Aga, Dewi, Minxy & Voldemort 'If your heart beats like a drum and your leg's a little wet, it's 'cause the Reaper's come to collect a little debt.'that ending...... That MOTHERFUCKING ENDING.   I AMDEAD BECAUSEMY MINDJUST EXPLODEDKA BOOM! Hear that sound? Relax. it's just the sound of my mind being blown and my brains splattering the walls.Holy balls is right folks. How the hell did the author think of such an awesome ending?!Sweet baby Jesus it's been 24 hours since I finished and I need a whole bottle of wine (to myself). This goddamn book has killed me, I am now currently deceased. Sorry but I have to say it again; THAT ENDING.. I have honestly in my whole 24 years of existence, never been so mind blown before. That cliffhanger left me breathless, strained & stressed, as soon as I put this book down I ran into my lounge room like a possessed mad woman and tore book three off the shelf and started straight away. I thought book one was good, book two was even better! *puts on favourite shelf and starts worshipping for eternity*Warning and an apology in advance for anyone reading this rubbish. I'm actually at a lost for words, so this is just word vomit. I feel like if I vomited out a pile of dog shit it would be coherent & more interesting then this review.“You are but a mortal," Roque whispers in my ear, riding his horse alongside the chariot, as per tradition. "And a whorefart," Servo calls from the other side."Yes," Roque agrees solemnly. "That too.”Did I read that shit correctly or are my eyes deceiving me... A whorefart?! I'm pissing myself & stealing this brilliant saying.I'm so glad this surpassed my expectations. I thought I hated space opera turns out I secretly love it, all thanks to this book. I enjoyed this book more then book one, all because it felt more spacey. In book one the competition on Mars felt like Earth to me so it was kinda unoriginal. I'm happy I can't say that about this book, it felt like a proper Sci-Fi. I loved the space ships I loved the pulse weapons I actually just loved everything, the world building was fantastic, the character development (especially Darrow) was so realistic and awesome & it was so exciting the action didn't stop once. I'm also happy to say I've grown use to the first person POV now and it isn't bothering me at all now, I find comfort in Darrows POV for some reason, mainly because I know he is a crazy dude and he will fuck the golds up. So I'm happy to safely say this book was more my cup of tea then book one, it had more fighting & action. We also didn't go through 200 pages of information dumpage. *phew wipes sweat from forehead*I couldn't get enough of Darrow in this instalment, it was so refreshing to see him fail & go through hell for the second time. (Yay?)Also my baby, my darling, my Sevro. I swear I'm jealous of other women liking him, I love him that much and he isn't even real. There were some moments in this book i truly adored. Like when him and Darrow confess everything to each other what a wonderful heart warming bromance. Also his entrance towards the beginning *heart eyes* I love HIM. *howls at the moon like a mad bitch*“You're a sinister little shit, aren't you?" Victra asks."I'm Gold, bitch. What'd you expect? Warm milk and cookies just because I'm pocket sized?”Also my new second favourite character of the series is.... drum roll please...... The big badass Ragnar, what a cool dude. He is like a space version of the bloody nine. I wanna see him go batshit & kill everyone. "Like a sheep invited to a banquet in his honor thrown by wolves.”I literally can't fault this book I'm just so happy, thrilled & impressed with the hottie known as Pierce Brown. Awesome book dude and if you ever see me at a convention prepare yourself. *wink* Just take all my money Pierce Brown & give me more badassery and keep quenching my blood thirst. Please & thank you. I do not recommend this book to anyone under the age of 16 no idea why this brutal masterpiece is on the fucking YA shelf. Should be military space opera or just plain old Sci - Fi.Who I do recommend this to is everyone who loves a good blood bath, also I think just everyone on this planet should read this book it's awesome and full of so many unexpected twists. I think you would also enjoy this if your a whorefart like me.9/10