Re-read with some of my Glorydamn friends at Buddies Books and Baubles because there was a lot of stuff that went down in this and I need to relive it all going into Morning Star.I'm glad I reread this since I had forgotten so much of what happened early on this this book. And even though I knew what was going to happen at the end and I knew it was coming and I was waiting for it to get there it still affected me so deeply and hurt just as much if not more than the first time.I'm pretty sure Pierce Brown just stuck a knife through my heart all over again.The good news is that I now only have to wait 4 days to see how the rest of this bloodydamn series plays out...instead of the year I had to wait before.THE GOLDS ARE GOING DOWNOriginal Review Dec 20144.5 GLORYDAMN StarsEveryone is comparing this book/series to Hunger Games, Enders Game and Game of Thrones well I say screw that….THIS IS THE SERIES OTHERS WILL COMPARE THEIR BOOKS TO. Step 1 - Read or Reread (trust me on this, unless you read it in the last few months) Red RisingStep 2 - Find a quiet space and time to immerse  yourself in this book. Once you start you will not want to stop.Step 3 - Gather snacks, comfortable clothes, pillows and blankets. You are not	 going to want to get up for anything Step 4 - Make sure to have your highlighter ready there are so many great lines to mark.Step 5 - READ ALL THE WORDS!!!!!Pierce Brown has done it again and created fantastic, complicated characters in a new world with danger, betrayal, humor, epic battles, political intrigue and awesomeness around every corner. I had inklings and theories and suppositions throughout the entire book and I got a few right but most of the time I was so wrong and I loved all the surprises. I’m not going to give any spoilers because I want everyone to be as surprised and blown away as I was by events as they happen.Darrow - It has to be hard living in the middle of the enemy and not forgetting from time to time why you are there. He has a lot of personal growth to go through as he tries to find his way in this world with all the Golds. He will take some chances and I will cross my fingers that they all work out. Darrow is struggling to become the man he needs to be to lead his people out of a slavery they do not even know they are in and stumbling along the way I hold my breath rooting for him to win at every instance. If you felt the first book was Intense well I have to say that I believe this book to be even more so. But there are still so great characters to add humor and a human face to all of the events. I love Darrow and Mustang I ship them with the intensity of a thousand stars….but SERVO always steals the show for me.Do you like bromances? I love them. True friendships that withstand anything and everything. Servo is the best friend a man like Darrow could have and he is even more crazy and fantastic in this book.There are so many great characters in this book, some from the past and more introduced. Plus there was new interesting and exciting information on some of the other colors that we haven’t seen yet. I was drawn into the story and world even more this time around and it was bloodydamn great. New characters to love…RAGNAR and new characters to hate…______ (not telling). AND THAT ENDING……What will I do as I contemplate for the next year how that is going to work out. I am all a twitter with anticipation.THANK YOU!!!THANK YOU!!!THANK YOU to Del Rey publishing via Netgalley for the ARC for review