This is breathtaking! A fresh creative approach: dark fairy tale meets historical fiction based on true events. Let’s meet with Nannerl Mozart : Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s not so much known sister who is also a musical prodigy, having only one important wish: to be remembered forever with her talent! She can attract attention of huge audience’s with magical fingers playing with piano keys, touching your soul softly and reaching to your deepest feelings, melting your heart with tunes. But she was born in wrong gender and wrong century for her passion. Being a woman musician at 18th century Europe is forbidden profession. She has to give up on her dreams as his brother walks into his path to become one of the greatest composers of the century! I honestly have no idea that siblings created a special fantasy world called “ Kingdom is back”. I am so intrigued to learn more about their unique bond and creation process of a masterpiece which will be an eternal musical feast!  Of course when you read any of Marie Lu’s novels, you get used to be charmed by her fantasy world. Nannerl doesn’t make an agreement with the devil to be immortal. She wants to be immortal with her work. She wants to have equal rights which is understandable. So she is forced to make bargain with a Fae boy. Her wish to be remembered with her musical talent may push her too far from her comfort zone and she can risk more than she can gain! Did she make the worst mistake of her life by trusting the magical creature? We’ll see about it! The historical fiction parts of the book awakened my love of Amadeus’ amazing works. I wanted to get more details, learning more back stories of siblings. It truly increased my bookish appetite. I literally wanted to devour the pages. But fantasy parts were a little complex for me at first. Some pieces didn’t fit properly but when I reached the end, I got all the metaphorical references, put the pieces at the right spaces and I enjoyed the complete, surprising puzzle! It was enjoyable, unique, original, hooking, mesmerizing reading journey! Learning more things about musical prodigies and breathing the same air, time traveling at 18th century Europe were fantastic experience!Giving my 4 magical, musical, fairytale, symphonic fantasy stars!bloginstagramfacebooktwitterm