My fingers are literally itching to get my violin and search my folders for a Mozart piece to practice. Which probably won't be hard to find.“What you offer me… I have already achieved.”This is a perfectly balanced book with magical and realistic elements that made me both want to float away to the Kingdom of Back but also reminded me just how important giving equal opportunity to everyone, no matter their gender, race, etc. is.It puts a magical twist on real events in history that we probably never knew even happened.— overall thoughts: 4.5—*All of my reviews are as spoiler-free as possible unless stated otherwise*If you are going to read this for anything let it be for Nannerl and Wolfgang's brother-sister relationship. The way they care for each other and the way they're written I just... my heart. is. full. and. soft. As a musician myself who grew up on Mozart this was already a book dear to me even before I started reading. Marie Lu's take on historical fiction honestly did not feel like the intimidating kind that is usually found in this genre with all the heavy topics. It's accessible and as usual, easy to digest and comprehend but with every scene still packing so much substance and layers.It was obvious that this book was written by a musician and someone familiar with Mozart... and it translated so well to the writing and world building. There is so much passion in the pages and I appreciated it so much Every character felt like they had so many layers. I never knew what to think of hyacinth… which I think was the point but he was just such a well written character. Honestly, all of them are. Marie Lu's strong suit is creating characters that are evidently flawed but still easy to relate to. They are all flushed out and it's easy to get into the groove of their dynamics. Especially as a whole family.“Speak for the ones who will come after you.”It talks about how we choose to see what we want to see and the only way to change that is by facing the reasons why that's so. Nannerl is a very strong female character that has been dealt with.. unfair.. cards. And seeing her come to terms with her life was both heartbreaking and... hopeful. The plot was predictable to me to a certain degree but at time, I just don't care. I have to say that it was an aspect that did pull me out of what was going on at time. There was a sort of detachment when the plot concerned characters other than the Mozart family. Everything else about this book made me fall in love. All my feelings are here and present, and with the brilliant execution of themes... what else can I say?Literally the master of writing satisfying and tear jerker endings, and as someone who believes that endings make or break a book, it’s a solid reason to pick up her books and...I JUST LOVE HER ENDINGS OKAY. Marie Lu's signature is all over this book with the adventure, intrigue, and emotional moments but make it a little more light and whimsical. If you are into any of those things I think you'll enjoy this (bonus points if you are into Mozart).“I wrote this for the Nunnrel’s of today and tomorrow. In the hopes that when they are ready to share their brilliance with the world, the world is ready to give them the attention and honor they deserve.”PLOT: ★★★★☆WRITING STYLE: ★★★★★WORLD BUILDING: ★★★★★CHARACTERS: ★★★★★THEMES: ★★★★★PACING: ★★★★☆PAGE TURNER: ★★★★★----------------PRE READ:8/3/20I just saw that this was about Mozart and his sister, and immediately knew that I had to read it. As a classical musician, I felt it would have been a betrayal if I didn't :3