Read for the Bratz Readathon!Challenge: Beauty and Brains  I am going to tell you a story you already know. But listen carefully, because within it is one you have never heard before.  The writing for this book is nothing short of lyrical. It’s something that will warm you, even with it’s cool shades of blue. The writing will captivate you in a way no other book could. Marie Lu was able to get across and accomplish everything that I had expected from this book and so, so much more. It’s a crescendo, gradually increasing in beauty as you go on. A wonderful tale with magical realism, an entirely new world created for one to explore. The magical elements begin taking hold slowly, just barely. It’s as if waking up from the sweetest dream of the wonderful Kingdom of Back. It’s words soft as flower petals caressing you ever so gently. A whisper of what’s to come. Something wonderful you cannot simply pinpoint. A world made entirely of imagination and witty wordings, of intrigue and longing. Do you know when you’re outside, and the sun happens to catch the light on your lashes, and suddenly everything is tinged in a golden ethereal glow? That is precisely how I would describe this book. Nannerl and Wolferl share hushed stories when nobody is listening, lest it be deemed immature and Devilish behavior. The stories Nannerl told were of far away lands and places never heard of. Riveting and catching the attention of her younger brother, to Nannerl’s great delight. This book is slow moving and meticulously detailed. Papa favors Woferl, and Nannerl is constantly looking for validation. Her father belittles her for every mistake, every wrong note player. She simply wants him to acknowledge her playing, she wants him to be proud of her. And it’s heartbreaking to watch as her father ignores her talent, her work, and her music. At first Nannerl was Papa’s prodigy, but she was quickly outdone by her younger brother. This causes multiple shifts in their relationship, at first loving brother and sister, to jealousy filled thoughts and accusations. Then back again. It’s a whirlwind for those two, but when they need it the most, they’re always there for each other, as all siblings have a way of doing. The magical world is filled with mischief and deceit. If nothing else, Nannerl falls into the trap. It could cost her everything, even her wish, to be remembered. And even worse, her mistakes could cost her brothers life. I continuously glanced around, looking for flitting shadows, Hyacinth’s sharp smile, a cool gust of air. It is a whirlwind, yes, slowly uncurling for those patient enough to read it. Though slow, it tells a magnificent story in the most beautiful writing. 4 stars ✨   I am the sister. The other Mozart. And her story is mine.