So it took me five days to read this book but it felt like I was reading it for about two weeks. It was so slow and so painful. This book is very overrated, I just don't understand how it's so popular. It never grabbed me and so I just wasn't interested. I'm giving it 2 stars because I'm feeling generous. What I liked: - The type of world Scott Westerfeld created. At first I thought it was a silly premise but as the story progressed and I found out more about the world Tally was living in, I understood why this kind of a world would seem ideal. I liked how Scott Westerfeld talked trash about us (or as he called us - "Rusties"). - Hoverboards. Very cool. What I did not like:- Tally. Sweet Baby Jesus, she was so irritating. I know she was 15/16 but I didn't like her. - David. Why did everyone love him? I just didn't see the appeal of his character. - The rest of the characters. They were weak characters. The words boring, clichéd and one-dimensional spring to mind. - The "romance". It was so weak. I didn't see any connection between Tally and David. Their insta-love and angst was annoying. - The pace. SCOTT, MY GOD MAN, PICK UP THE PACE. This book was quite possibly the slowest book I've ever read in my life. - The writing. I just didn't like it. I knew from the first chapter where Tally was explaining the vomit-coloured sky that I wouldn't like the writing and I was right. - The Special Circumstances people. They didn't seem like consistent characters. Lightening fast reflexes, superhuman senses etc and yet two teenagers outsmarted them? Not buying it. - How predictable it was. It was so predictable and the godawful slow pace just made the book so much worse. I wouldn't recommend this book. You won't miss out on anything if you skip this book. Do I want to read the sequel? No. Will I read the sequel? Probably. I wish I was someone who could have put this book down as a DNF (I really really wanted to) or someone who could skip reading the sequel because Uglies was a poor book but unfortunately I am not. Who knows, maybe the next book will be better but I'm not going to hold my breath.