Thirty-four years in the writing, personally taking me over twenty years to finish (twice), and what have I learnt? Though I consider myself a Constant Reader, I've got used to the idea that Sai King is not that good at ending his longer-form stories (his short story and novella writing are great). For a story that winds its away across so much of the King Multiverse, passing by Spaghetti Westerns, Hogwarts, Oz, the Seven Samurai and so much more, a story so huge, so immense, and at times so brilliant, I was never going to be truly satisfied with how it ended; but on this second reading of the entire series, I feel like I have better understanding of how I feel.The Dark Tower is all about the journey, and I feel that the way this book ends supplements that idea; the idea that The Dark Tower is always about the journey; about friendship, and what happens when it's broken. About destiny and drive. About training and vigilance. About fighting the good fight for yourselves and others. And also ultimately about sacrifice.It feels like (to me), that the final book in this amazing series was rushed - sorry, but that's how it feels. It's nothing like the huge calamity of the final season of HBO's Game of Thrones, but still feels like a disservice to Constant Readers - on the other hand, at the time it felt like King was looking to get the series finished for the Constant readers - so I suppose we can't have it both ways?Despite the superb metafiction around the issue of deus ex machina, it felt like the overlying theme of the whole book was... oops sticky situation, let's just throw this in to solve it. Compared to the superb plotting of The Drawing of the Three and Wizard and Glass it felt like a different series. It was still a wondrous journey, but at times I was just simply bored. I can see why I wasn't happy with my first reading of this. But as I said, I was never expecting a satisfying ending ; the story held and made sense, and the series overall is great. 7 out of 12.2020 read; 2007 read