I do not give out 1-star ratings lightly. At least, not within the last year. Nowadays, if I don't enjoy a book, I'll give it 2-stars since I understand the effort that goes into writing/editing/publishing.But this book honestly bothered me so much and I told myself I wasn't going to go off on it, but I think I might. So, bear with me and my rant … The number one thing that bothered me about this book is how Wendy's "mother" is described as being beautiful in an “anorexic” way. I wrote the actual quote in an update, and I don’t feel like looking it up now, but I’m honestly shocked. Anorexia is not something to strive for, it’s something people truly struggle with and to use it as a way to describe someone as beautiful? No. It could have been written differently. It should have been written differently. How was this not caught by editors? Wendy, the main character, is seventeen and that means young girls will be readings this book and what if some of them are struggling with image/weight issues? Is that really something to write in your book?Honestly, I almost feel like ending the review here, but I won’t because other things bothered me, too.Wendy. The main character? Yeah, she bothered me. Why is she so self-obsessed? Constantly reminding the reader that she’s SO pretty. We get it, girl, you’re pretty.Also, Finn. I didn’t like him at all. He was annoying from the start and I disliked him even more when it felt like there was insta-love going on between him and Wendy from page 3. It felt incredibly rushed and unnatural. He’s also boring! I don’t understand what’s so interesting about him. So, he’s attractive? Cool. Many people are. It’s not a personality trait. Wendy can show you that.Also, I have no idea what the plot was or if there even was one. Everything was all over the place and I was pretty much disinterested in everything. Trolls? It had a slight potential of being interesting, but it wasn’t. I’m just bummed that I have the whole series, curtsy of a gift I received years ago, and the last two books will remain unread.