"Second" read: I’d been in a reading slump for weeks. I didn’t like it so I thought I’d turn to an old favourite. This definitely did the trick as I finished it in two days plus started reading comics again! Either I had forgotten or not realised, everything happens so dang quickly! I didn’t like how fast Finn went from ‘weird dude who stares at me all the time’ to ‘I can’t imagine my life without him’. Knowing how that plot ends definitely helps. This is a teenage infatuation that feels like it will last forever. I really like that we’re shown Wendy’s age in the way she’ll throw a fit or is incredibly rebellious against her mother’s wishes. Plus, this an entirely new environment that the young girl was launched into with very little prep or information. It’s great when an author can make character’s feel like individuals. I love so many characters in this series and it was so nice to read about them again. I loved the little hints of things to come. We weren’t given all the plots laid out all at once so the next books would have nothing to provide. Having not read this series for a while, I’m sure I missed a few details. But that makes me all the more excited to continue! I have to say, I think my favourite part of this book is the short story at the end. It features my favourite character in this series Loki and it actually feels different from the story we’d just read. "First" read: This series has been one of my favourites since I discovered it. I loved the characters and how descriptive Hocking describes this world she's created. It was great to see Wendy actually reacting to what was happening to her. I completely agree with Wendy and how she handled the situation (2023 me can't say I 100% agree with her attitude). Something I also loved was how Wendy's family (the one she grew up with) never left her mind. She missed them terribly consistently throughout the whole story which leads Wendy to her decision at the end. It was a softer side to her that we might not have seen otherwise. Finn reminds me of a few other book love interests. A tough exterior who doesn't shed a lot of light on himself but is fiercely protective of the MC. My version of this book has an added short story "The Vittra Attacks". It is in a different perspective. As soon as I read it, I desperately wanted to know more about this Loki character. It gives you a sneak peek in how the other tribe works plus leads into a moment from the next book Torn.This was my first (and only) book with 'trolls' as the supernatural creature. I enjoyed this take on those tales. Plus there's a political plot that adds some good world building. Switched is all about mystery and adventure as well as the joy and heartbreak of first love. Definitely recommend if you love simple fantasy stories based in the real world.