First off, Switched is really gorgeous. Just look at the cover. Isn't it so beautiful? I personally chose this edition because the cover has some work of magic in it. It's like, it has an ability to suck me into its world. Beautiful!Second, the premise is really, really good. I love fae stories, and trolls are something new to me. I wanted to know more about trolls because I really find them interesting. And of course, the fact that the female character Wendy Everly is a troll and a changeling, I knew I will really like this book.So, was this book a yay or nay?I must say, a little bit of both.I love it because honestly, Amanda Hocking's writing style is so flawless and very easy to read. She uses words that are light and undemanding. She doesn't complicate everything and she doesn't give me trouble analyzing such things. Her character and world-building is also non-complex. What you read is what you get. Now what made me become (a little) bit disappointed was the plot. It was neatly done, but it was weak. The progression was poorly established. I think there were scenes that weren't really necessary but they were given emphasis (I guess to lengthen the whole book) but to be honest, the interesting things only happened at the last few chapters of the book. Another thing that bothered me was the existence of the Vittras. These are the creatures that act as antagonists. They are Trylle's greatest enemies. In this book, their descriptions unfortunately didn't make an exceptional appeal. Their physicality was so vague. I couldn't really imagine how they look like. Do they look like human or something?My expectation for this book was also different. Because this book talks about trolls, I really expected to see some unworldly mythical creatures here. Creatures that look like these:Because we're talking about trolls, right? So why did I only see humans and no trolls at all? This is fantasy so I was looking for something different. Anyway, I understand it as I've read further, because the author eventually explained it through her characters that trolls don't really look mystical but instead, they look human. So yeah, I couldn't do anything about that. BUT STILL. I want to see REAL TROLLS. :-/Nevertheless, the thing that absolutely lifted the whole story was Finn. This character is so amazing. I like him from the beginning up to the end. Even though he's brooding and he was quite snobby in most parts of the book, the gentleness and protectiveness in him were so tangible. I have nothing against Wendy, on the other hand. She's an okay character and she doesn't annoy me, but I think she needs some development. There were parts when she doesn't know what to do and she's very dependent to other people despite her extraordinary abilities. Hopefully her character will get better in the next books.As a whole, this book is good. I just think it needs more elements to make it really sensational. My friends who have already read this series told me that it's going to get better in the next installments, so we'll see. Good luck to me! (oh, it rhymes! ha!)Rating: 3 Stars