⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Not for me anymore*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱This review is purely for me and might contain spoilers and facts from the book to keep myself in the known at all time. It's also very long and somewhat detailed.Second re-read: 03.06.2018The book centers around Wendy Luella Everly (17) who never fit in anywhere. She has grown up thinking she's evil because her mother hates her, calls her a mother and at six years old, tried to kill her. Turns out her mother was right; Wendy is a changeling. She was switch at birth with the real baby to gain health, education and money. Unfortunately, Wendy's life never went where it was supposed to. After being told what she is, a Trylle; a troll, she has to leave her human brother and aunt to be with her own kind. Always wanted to fit in, to be loved, she got quite a surprised when she arrived at Förening, where the Trylle lives.“Sorry to disturb your sleep.” Mr. Meade cleared his throat so I would look up at him.“It’s okay,” I said.Overall, I'm a really picky reader now, which I'm certain I wasn't in the beginning. Now I pick at everything, even the smallest thing, and in this book I picked a lot. It was too much of a insta-love connection between Wendy and Finn. I mean, she felt so much for him just by taking to him three times.. After 24% and a meeting/talking of four-five short times, she has fallen for him. ‘He touched my cheek again, just with his fingertips, sending flutters through me. He studied my injury intently, and then his eyes met mine, dark and wonderful. It was at that moment that I knew I had officially fallen for him.’ This bothered me a lot. If it weren't for the fact that I had already read this series, I would've quitted the book by 24%. “Trylle is the name of our ‘tribe,’ if you will.” He rubbed the side of his temple. “This is hard to explain. We are, um, trolls.”“You’re telling me that I’m a troll?” I raised one eyebrow, and finally decided that he must be insane.Wendy seems naive, incredibly weak (she lets everyone walk all over her, even though it's not her fault), and frankly a little dumb at times. You really get the feeling that this is YA, even though the main character soon turns 18. Things go to fast; like Wendy is attacked once, Finn makes them go away and she's all ready to leave with him straight away, even though she had already said no because of Matt. She changed her mind in less than a day. It really annoyed me. There's no build up. But this is not to say the doesn't have potential. It does. A lot. The changeling story is quite interesting, so is the plot. I just wish there was no insta-love feelings and that things where more mature. Can you imagine how amazing this book would've been if it was new adult? PS! The series has been taken from the ‘favorite’ shelf, and Wendy has been taken away from the ‘kick-ass-heroines’ shelf. What was I thinking with the last one? She is nowhere near a fighter.New rating: 2 stars“Did you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers, and I'd just be like, yeah, that sounds right.” Förening, The Changelings, The Trylle & The Vittra:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list.- Förening is where the Trylle lives.- Förening is in Minnesota, along the Mississippi River in a very secluded area,.- Förening is a town, sort of. They consider it to be more of a compound, but in the way the Kennedys have a compound. It’s just a glorified gated community, really.- Förening is entirely Trylle, trackers, and mänsklig. There are about five thousand who live there in total, and they have gas stations, a small grocery store, and a school. It’s a very small, quiet community.- Förening is populated with Trylle. The term Trylle is a distinction similar to a tribe. They are trolls, and over the years, the troll population has been dwindling. Their numbers used to be great, but now there are less than a million of them on the entire planet.- The Trylle never really fit in anywhere in the human world. They have a quick temper. They’re very intelligent and a picky eater. They hate shoes. Their hair is hard to control. They have dark brown eyes, dark brown hair; earth tones. Their eyes and hair are always earth tones. And oftentimes their skin has almost a greenish hue to it.- Trylle are, to the layman, trolls, but that term is antiquated and demeaning, which doesn’t do them justice at all. They are beings closely related to humans, but more in tune with themselves. They have abilities, intelligence, and beauty that far surpass that of humans.- There are two important distinctions to their lifestyle as Trylle that separate them from the humans; they want to live a quiet life communing with the earth and themselves. They work to strengthen their abilities and use them to better their lives, to protect themselves and the things around them. They devote their entire lives to this. Förening exists only to preserve and enhance the Trylle way of life.- The other distinction is how they maintain this lifestyle, although it isn’t that different, really; human children have their schools, but these places prepare them for a life of servitude. That’s not what they want. They want a life of complete and total freedom. That is why they have changelings.- The changeling practice dates back hundreds, maybe thousands of years. Originally they were forest dwellers, far less . . . industrialized than now. Their children were prone to starvation and medical problems, and they did not have an adequate educational system. So they’d leave their babies in place of human children so they would have the benefits that only a human childhood could offer, then when they were old enough they would come back to them.- That practice evolved because they evolved. Changelings were healthier, more educated, and wealthier than the Trylle counterparts that stayed behind. Eventually, every child born became a changeling. In order to maintain their current level of existence, they’d have to leave the solace of the compound and spend their lives doing menial jobs. That simply would not do, so they leave their children with the most sophisticated, wealthiest human families. - The changelings live a childhood that is the best this world has to offer, and then return with an inheritance from their host families that infuses their society with wealth. That, of course, isn’t the only goal, but it is a large part of how they can live like this. The money they obtain from their host family will support them for the rest of their life. Simply said; The changelings are there so that Trylle doesn't have to work.- The Trylle are not all created equal; Trylle are far more gifted than the others. Vittra are lucky to have any abilities. Adding Wendy, for example, to their ranks would greatly add to their power and influence.- Trylle are one of the largest tribes left, but they are not the only one.- The Vittra are a warring faction, and they are forever looking to pick off some of them. Either by turning them to their side, or simply by getting rid of them. “When something is important to you, you make sure its safe.”The monarchy:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list.There is royalty, of which Wendy are at the top, after Elora, of course. Below her there are the Markis and Marksinna, but they can become Kings and Queens through marriage. Then there are the average Trylle, the common folk, if you will. Below that there are trackers. And at the very bottom, there are mänsklig. - The trackers so low because though they are Trylle, but they only track. Finn's parents were trackers, and their parents before them, and so on. They have no changeling population. Ever. That means that they have no income. They bring nothing into the community. They provide a service for other Trylle, and in return They are provided with a home and food. They are almost like an indentured servant. Until they retire from tracking, they don’t need to do anything else. Many trackers, such as Finn, will work as a guard for some of the families in town. All of the service jobs, like the nannies, the teachers, the chefs, the maids, are almost entirely retired trackers, and they make an hourly wage. Some are also mänsklig, but they stick around less and less. - The roles of the Markis and Marksinna: in other provinces, where the King and Queen don’t live, the Markis and Marksinna are the leaders. They’re like governors or something. In times when the King or Queen can’t fulfill their duties, a Markis can step up and take their place. In places like Förening, their title is mostly just a way of saying that they’re better than everyone else, but they don’t really have any power.- The role of the Chancellor: the Chancellor is an elected official, much like the prime minister in England. The monarchy has the final word and wields the most power, but the Chancellor serves as their adviser and helps give the Trylle commoners a voice in the way the government is run.- Theoretically, The Trylle follows the law of America, and for the most part Trylle laws coincide with American laws, except that they have more of them. However, they live in separate pockets unto themselves. Using their resources—namely, cash and persuasion—they can get government officials to look the other way, and they conduct our business in private.- The Markis and Marksinna are what they are because of the abilities they have, and they are passed down through their children. Regular Trylle have some abilities, but they’ve faded with time. Wendy's mother is one of the most powerful Queens they’ve had in a very long time, and the hope is that Wendy will continue the tradition of power. “I look at you because I can't look away.” Other characters:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list; contains spoilers.↦ Finn Holmes (20), a Trylle and a tracker; it’s his job. He find the changelings and bring them back.↦ Matthew ‘Matt’ Everly (24?), Wendy's ‘host’ brother. Maggie ‘Mags’, their aunt on the father side and Wendy's legal guardian. Kimberly ‘Kim’ Everly, their mom.↦ Elora Dahl(?) (in her fifties?), Wendy's real mother. She the Queen, Wendy is the Princess. She are her only child, the last of her legacy. She will one day be Queen of Trylle. Elora has precognition: she can tell the future, but only by painting it. All she knows is what she paints, she doesn’t see anything. She picks up the brush, and it just. . . comes out. She has no control over what she sees↦ Rhys, a mänsklig ‘mänks’. The literal translation for mänsklig is ‘human’. Rhys is human. He were switched at birth because of a changeling; Wendy. Meaning that when she took the place of another baby, that baby had to go somewhere else. Meaning Rhys is Michael, Matt's real brother..↦ Willa Strom (21), a Trylle. Finn had been a tracker for Willa, so he knew her and her father, Garrett Stroms (in his mid-forties), quite well. Garrett’s wife - Willa’s mother - had died some years earlier. According to Finn, Garrett was easygoing, but Willa was a tad high-strung. Prior to living in Förening, she’d been privileged to the point of excess. The Stroms are very good friends of Elora. Willa can controlled the wind and her official title is Marksinna. Her dad is a Markis, which is just a male Marksinna.↦ Rhiannon, a mänsklig ‘mänks’. Rhiannon is Willa’s mänsklig.↦ Aurora Kroner, Trylle and a Marksinn, her husband, Noah Kroner and their son, Tove Kroner (19). The Kroners are very important people. They affect the future. Tove is a psychic. He can sense things. And he can move things with his mind. But he can’t read your thoughts. He can see auras, though. Colors. He is particularly sensitive to emotion. And when he move things, it helps focus him. He’s like the highest Markis in the world, which is weird. The Marksinna are usually the ones with all the abilities. Guys can do some things, but they pale in comparison to what women can do, yet Tove has more ability than anybody else. Aurora’s a healer. She can touch you and fix you. That’s her ability. There are maybe six or seven other families in Förening alone with the same title. The Kroners were next in line for the crown if Wendy didn’t come back. They’re real powerful.↦ Oren, the Vittra King. Sara, his queen. ↦ Jen and Kyra, Vittra trackers. How had it turned into this? I had lived my whole stupid life without him, and now I could barely make it through the hour.Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Young Adult) Paranormal/Fantasy Romance.Series: - Series, Book One.Love triangle? - No.Cheating? - No.HEA? - No.Favorite character? - Tove Kroner.Would I read more by this author/or of series? - Already have.Would I recommend this book/series? - Probably not. But yes, if you like YA, I guess.Will I read this again in the future? - No. New Rating - 2 stars.Re-read: 27.03.15Still an amazing book! Though, if I remember correctly, I think I love the second book the most.. Will just have to see.. On to the next one on my re-reading! New rate: 4.5 stars.First read review:Interesting book. Can't wait to read next one!First rate: 5 stars.