⭐️ 2.5 Stars ⭐️Theodosia, also known as Theo, is the princess of Astrea. But when the Kalovaxians attack Theo loses everything. Her mother, the queen, is now dead, and all the citizens of Astrea are now slaves to the Kalovaxians. Theo was named the Ash Princess and is now a captive in her palace. She has endured relentless abuse from the Kaiser and was portrayed as a weak, broken little girl. But after the Kaiser makes her an unthinkable act, she realizes that she must fight back for her kingdom and not just survive.The plot of this book is unoriginal, and nothing interesting happens. It’s a predictable plot, and you can guess what happens. Theo teams up with rebels. They then come up with complicated schemes to tear down the Kalovaxians. She escapes the castle and forms an army. The plot just seemed like any other YA Fantasy book, which was a disappointment. I wish it had unexpected twists that you would not be expecting. But it doesn’t.The love triangle in this book was unnecessary and cheesy at times. For contender one, we have Blaise, who is Theo’s childhood friend from birth. For contender two, we have Soren, the Kalovaxian Prinz, who has a soft heart. We did not need this at all. I think it would have been better if Theo didn’t have a love interest, let alone two. I feel like it would have been more empowering to show that she doesn’t need a man, but she can survive. But no, we have to get a love triangle.As we know, Theo was kept alive by the Kaiser, which doesn’t make much sense to me. Yes, they do explain why but the reasoning makes no sense. If you keep Theo alive, she could rally the people of Astrea to revolt even if you beat her and degrade her. She is still going to inspire hope for the Astreans to gain their land back, so why do you even risk the chance of having that happen. If you want to stop the reinstatement of a rightful monarch, you would kill the monarch. It makes the Kaiser look dumb for making that decision and diminishes his character.I wasn’t a fan of Theo. She practically lives in luxury for the most part. She gets to wear fancy dresses, go to events in the palace, and have Cress as a friend, who is a Kalovaxian. I’m not diminishing her punishments and the ridicule she faces. I’m just saying that besides that, she is living in luxury. After the first girl said she would help Theo escape, the girl betrays her. Since then, She has done nothing. Her people are dying in the thousands from the mines, but she does nothing. She doesn’t do anything till she sees Blaise and then plots to take her throne back. But she can’t even carry out the plans because she cares too much for the people they want her to kill. She is too indecisive, and her inability to care out plans causes her to be annoying.I wish we got more from the spirit gems. In the book, we are told spirit gems that give the user powers, and they are more powerful if you know how to use them. The Kalovaxians don’t know how to use them and instead use them for basic needs like warmth and beauty. Theo knows how to use them (Which how does she if Astrea was destroyed when she was six and has not allowed the possession of one since.) She has swiped them before, and there are hundreds of them in the castle. I don’t understand why she doesn’t take one and use it. As the queen, she can’t use them because she won’t make it to the afterlife. Honestly, Theo wouldn’t you want to save thousands of your people in exchange for going to the afterlife? It seems like a no-brainer. There are still many questions I have about the spirit gems like…- How were they made?- Why were they made?- Why are they important?- How do you become a guardian and who decides what spirit gem each one uses?I would have liked to know more about them, and I feel like we only got the bare minimum about them. It’s an intriguing concept that I wish was expanded upon more.The author also has a tendency to repeat the same words to describe the character's reactions. I'm not exaggerating but it's a lot! Here is a list that shows most of them. Credit to Bhavya for the list!  Smile“I’m fine,” I say instead, forcing a smile she sees through immediately.“You’re right,” I lie with a smile.“I tell her with what I hope passes as a demure smile.”“I paste a smile on my face as well.”“Crescentia adds with a dimpled smile.”“I give her a reassuring smile as Søren helps her off the ship.”“I don my most innocent smile and link my arm through Erik’s.”“Kaiser’s orders,” he says with a tight smile. “I’m sure he has his reasons.”“He always does,” I reply, hoping my smile looks more natural than it feels.“I force a high, false laugh, keeping my smile frozen and speaking in Astrean for extra measure.”Elpis is bewildered. “Smile,” I tell her"“I look up at the guard and give him my sweetest smile, though it doesn’t seem to do much good. His face remains frozen.”“Søren grimaces, but his eyes are smiling”“I tighten my smile so that it looks vaguely forced”“All it takes are wide eyes, tentative smiles, and a wolf at my heels.”"I shrug, but my smile is feral.""Her eyes linger on me a moment longer before her mouth curls into a tight smile and she clasps her hands in front of her.“Her smile is wan.”“Her mouth twitches into something that might be a smile.”“but he was a gangly boy with an easy smile.”"I smile pleasantly at the barrage of courtiers”“I say, forcing a smile.”“Blaise must see where it’s going, because a grim smile stretches across his face.”“The thought of it causes a smile to rise to my lips.""I smile.”“I give Elpis a smile of thanks”“Cress smiles, relief flooding her face”“Have you ever seen him smile?”“My father doesn’t smile much either.”“I force a smile.”“Her smile is sweet but false.”“Her words rankle, but I try not to show it, forcing a smile instead."“Her smile grows somewhat warmer as she calls for Elpis to come dress her hair.”“She glances at the pin in my hair, set with simple pearls, lips pursing thoughtfully.”"I add with a smile.”“He smiles, relieved.”“With a gracious smile...”“her eyes boring into me no matter how many reassuring smiles I give her.""but I force a smile and try not to let him see it.He manages a smile, but he still doesn’t look at me."“but he catches my look and smiles.”""He shakes his head and smiles. It’s the first time I’ve seen him really smile,“He shakes his head and forces a smile.""Søren softens, a small smile tugging at his lips.“He smiles and passes me the fork.”but Crescentia’s smile”“Her smile faltered.”“but I resisted and after a moment she nodded.”“I smile at her”“I don’t answer him except to nod.”“If I were alone, I might smile.”“I say, hoping for a smile.““she says with a smile so sweet I know it must be fake.”“Art’s smile turns feral”“Her smile is cruel and mocking.”“but I get the feeling he’s nodding.”“giving him a dimpled smile here”“... watch Crescentia as she gives the Kaiser a dimpled smile”“Crescentia turns our way and her blinding smile grows wider.”“I tell her with a forced smile I hope seems natural.”“she replies with a smile that feels like a blow to my heart.”“her mouth is smiling as she nudges me toward him.""She smiles slightly, her shoulders relaxing.”“... taking my hands in hers and smiling.”“She gives me a smile so sad...”“... fair eyebrows arched over a bemused smile.”“An uncertain smile tugs at her lips...”“Her smile lingers for a moment...”“She has the same smile as Søren.”"Elpis gives me a small smile.”“.... she murmurs, her smile rare and wide.”“... I say, smiling.”“Her smile is genuine, relieved.”“After a second, she gives me a smile”“Cress’s smile softens into something more natural.”“I ask with a bland smile...”“I glance up at him through my eyelashes and summon my sweetest smile.”“His smile broadens and he leans back in the chair, which creaks under his girth.""Søren’s open smile on the boat"“I can’t help but smile.""A small smile works its way to Elpis’s mouth,“He breaks into a lopsided smile when he sees me.”“Even with the wall between us, I know she’s smiling.”“I nod, fighting a smile.”“Cress’s smile is beatific as she does just that, picking up the book of Elcourtian histories.”“I’m going to miss her smile.”“Her smile is a brittle.”“She smiles and gives my hand a squeeze before releasing it.""She smiles, relieved.”“She looks back to me, pale eyebrows raised, smile tentative.”“I try to smile at him”“He means it as a comfort and I smile at him and pretend to be comforted,"“I am rage and hurt and hatred, but I force that aside and give him a small, tentative smile,”“He smiles like a wolf closing in on its prey”“...and I will smile”“... and though he flashes a smile at Søren”"“I say with a half smile.”“Heron smiles”“When I comply, a smile ghosts across his face.”“ She was smiling bigger than I’d ever seen her.”“She smiles and it is wild and triumphant, despite everything.”“Crescentia was pretty and sweet and always smiling.”“I say, twisting my mouth into a cruel smile.”“Her mouth tightens and she mirrors my mockery of a smile."“I hope my smile looks more real than it feels.”“I can’t help but smile.”“... my smile slides away.”“and he almost smiles."“He’s smiling"“he says with a tired smile”“Then wave, at least, and smile”“... it doesn’t have the warmth my mother’s smile always held.”“I tell her, pasting on the fake smile I always wore at court.”“We do,” she says, matching my smile.“... her smile has gone feral.” Mouth Pursing/Pressing “She purses her lips.”“I purse my lips and turn the question over in my mind.”“I say, and do my best impression of stone-faced Søren, furrowing my brow and pursing my lips.“Her mouth purses before curving into a grin.”“she says pursing her lips.”“... jaw tight, eyes hard, mouth pursed...”“She nods, pressing her lips together thoughtfully.”"I press my lips together.""I press my lips together to keep my protest down.”“She pauses and presses her lips together...” Tight “Kaiser’s orders,” he says with a tight smileI keep a tight hold on my smile.“What is it you want from me, my lady?” she asks me, her voice tight ." Grunt “He gives a grunt that I interpret as acceptance, but it isn’t a promise.”“He grunts in response and I have no choice but to take that as assent.""he grunts...” Wrinkling Nose “I wrinkle my nose.”“I tell him, wrinkling my nose.” Nod “I nod toward my vanity”“She nodded”“She nods, her eyes solemn.”“She nods, pressing her lips together thoughtfully.”“My throat tightens so much that I can’t speak, only nod.”“She nods once at me before turning her attention to the Kaiser...”“I nod, trying to look placated"“The Kaiser nods to the guard behind me”“I nod.”"I nod my thanks...”“I nod even though I’m not sure he’s right.”“He nods." Shakes Head He shakes his head and smiles.”He shakes his head and forces a smile."“He shakes his head.”“Søren shakes his head.”“He shakes his head."How did the author and editors notice the repetition of the same words?!?!It just felt like any YA book to me. Bland characters, a reused plot, and a magic system that was somewhat different but still felt similar to others. There was barely anything fresh and new. The characters felt like other characters I have read about before, and the plot was recycled from countless other books.TW: Slavery, Blood, abuse, torture, and rape (non-graphic).Check out my review on my blog: https://inkingandthinking.wordpress.c...