4 stars"Now it's time for a queen to rise."I'm gonna be honest: This was better than Red QueenI know, I know, that's such a bold claim to make. But I stand by it. Ash Princess was a surprisingly good read. I knew it had the same tropes as most YA fantasy does: Rebellion, princesses, love triangle, etc. But I was invested in the story as well as Theodosia's character development.This took me a while to read not because it was boring, but because of finals. I read in-between studying but once finals were done, I power-read the hell out of this book.Ash Princess is the story of Theodosia living in her country Astrea that has been invaded by the Kalovaxians. The Kalovaxians have completely colonized Astera, taking away all of the cultures of Astera as well as killing off a good chunk of the Asteran population. Theo witnessed her mother getting killed at the age of 6 and has been living as a token to the Kaiser. Theo wants to fight for her freedom and for Astrea. When the opportunity comes in the form of a rebellion, she knows joining the rebellion is the only way to take back Astrea.There is context warning I want to put out as this series does have some troubling aspects. Those include Slavery, torture, violence, abuse, mention of rape.As mentioned earlier, Ash Princess does carry the same trope as many other fantasy novels out there. I was not impressed with the idea of a love triangle because I feel like most fantasy/dystopia have love triangles and I'm sick and tired of seeing them. Along with that, there's also rebellions and princesses fighting for what is right, etc. It's all formulaic, but I didn't mind that in Ash Princess. Still didn't like the love triangle, but I did have a good time reading Ash Princess.The Pros:I very much liked Theo as a character. She is the reluctant protagonist who is very determined to get back her country and avenge the death of her mother. She wants what's best for herself and her people. I really sympathized with Theo with all she had to go through. What with her mother's death and the abuse she goes through, she comes out still determined to fight for her country. The world building, while shallow, is interesting because of the many countries the Kalovaxians have invaded. Ash Princess has a map and seeing all the other countries and possible exploring makes me giddy to see more of the world. This is a dark book, especially for a fantasy. I know the issues of abuse has been in different fantasy stories, but I like how Laura Sebastian didn't hold back because this made the story all the more entralling.The ConsThere is a love triangle here and I didn't hate it, but I definitely thought it was unnecessary. This is something I fail to understand why so many authors include a love triangle in their fantasy/dystopia books. Can't we just have a novel where our protagonist has ONE love interest instead of two? Because having two people pinning after you sounds tiring.VerdictAsh Princess, while bringing nothing new to YA fantasy, was a great read. If you do enjoy novels where there are rebellions and lies with an engaging plot, then Ash Princess is definitely the book you want to read. I'm really looking forward to the next book in the series.Thanks for reading my review!-Cesar