*** 5 ***Wow! Another spellbinding, mind blowing, fast talking, action packed Sanderson hit! I have gotten so used to his brilliance already that it doesn't surprise me anymore - I have come to expect it from him and wonder if he will ever write something that lets my high expectations down... Well, not this time, that is for sure!I love the universe Sanderson has created for the majority of his Fantasy, of which this world is a part of. This time the magic system depends on the human "breath" , which is something like the spark of our soul, though not the soul itself, which gives us the joy and true vision of our lives. Without it we can still live normal lives, only duller, less colorful, less joyful, less "alive"... The people who give their breath away to the maggi, who are called Awakeners here, have to do so willingly and are usually well paid, thus most of those who "choose* to give their breath away are poor and by their act secure some help for their families... They become Drabs. The Awakeners use the gathered breath to "awaken", or infuse object with parts of it and in combination with well crafted commands makes those alivened object perform desired tasks. The more breath a person acquires, the longer they live, the healthier they are, and the higher status they achieve. There is one more component to make the magic work - color. For the transfer of breath to work, it uses the color from objects around it, but for best results, a bright cloth seems to work best. And, on top of the food chain and social leather are the G-ds, those who have died, but somehow awaken spontaneously and start needing a breath a week just to stay alive. However, they become whatever their view of perfection is, and are treated as gods, their every move followed by their dedicated priests, their every word recorded and carefully interpreted as a guide for the future. These gods are led by the G-d King, a Returned as a baby and gifted with an inordinate amount of breaths, making him a singularly powerful individual.This is kind of the set up for the story and where things begin. The G-D King needs an heir, thus he needs a wife. The neighboring kingdom has promised one of its princesses for a wife, mostly as a diplomatic guarantee against war, and sends the youngest daughter to perform her duties. Political intrigues ensue and unrest is brewing in the streets. The pantheon of gods are forming factions and we are plunged into a variety of different conflicts, always kept wondering who is going to do what and what are their motivations... This is a very dry way of me explaining the vibrant and dynamic range of storytelling Sanderson gifts us with in this story, but it does give the basics, which I hope sounds like something you guys would like to check out. Because it is not only about the Fantasy, it is also about the human relationships, the banter, the things that make us heroes in the eyes of the ones around us, our self awareness, and the way we perceive the world around us. It is a story of human experience. I will whole heartedly recommend this to all reading fans, regardless of age or genre preference. It is worth the read and is a perfect gateway to Sanderson's work. Let's make you one of the Sandersonian Legion!!!I wish you all Happy Reading and may you let your imagination reach for new heights!!!