The review will be divided into two parts :1)Overall my thoughts and the spoiler-free review 2)Rant review Spoiler filled reviewSo let's start with a free-of-spoiler analysis This book, I think, was OK Yet I had high standards going into this Sanderson is a fairly hyped author, and I had heard about his world-building. While the magic system in this one was unique and fascinating, The story was, at best, average. Reading more adult fantasy was one of my goals for 2021So I decided to start my year with an adult fantasy book. But this book seemed like a classic YA book!!!I am well aware that the age of the MC does not classify the book as YA or Adult. But my complaint was not about the age of the MC It was the plot, the misogyny, and imperialism in this book (More about imperialism in the spoiler sectionThis was YA sans the element of the love triangle (Thank God for small mercies) But the main reason I was excited about high fantasy was the detailed magic system and the limitations and rules of this world. While Sanderson did a wonderful job of explaining the limitations, I was left with more questions by the end of this bookI would have liked us to have at least some backstory about the war that created the different realms in this book. Sanderson explained how the MAGIC SYSTEM was working. But he only provided the basic information IMO For instance, We know that people draw their magic from colors, but we haven't been given any information about how it all started. And the explanations I was given left me more confusedWhat sneaky trick Sanderson pulled off was that, according to him, the universe in which the tale is set is not aware of the full potential of this magic system. They are all new to magic, so there is little knowledge left for the readers. BUT that's the point!!! I paid to understand it!!!   Explain it correctly!! Sooo many  loose endings IMONow the plotline ... This book follows two sisters Elsa and Ana Vivi and Siri. Vivi is the "ideal child" whereas Siri is the "wild child" Vivi is set to save their kingdom from the "evil king" by marrying him. Their father cannot, however, bring himself to give up Vivi, because she is precious and soooo special. Instead, he decides to sacrifice Siri Here's the  plot  twist Vivi is not a decent human being, let alone an "ideal child" She's "perfect" because she's soft-spoken, obedient, and well-managed. When are people going to understand that this does not make someone a good human being? This Vivi is fundamentally a younger version of Karen!!!She's prejudiced, arrogant, she's looking down on unprivileged people, and she's bold enough to start judging them for their life choices! Sanderson tried his best to make her likable, but it failed miserably. She's a hypocrite!!! I love the morally gray characters, but they are complex and multi-layer. Vivi felt 2 dimensional She was the privileged kid who thought she was special and got mad when the spotlight was taken away from her.We were supposed to believe in the development of her character However, character development does not mean being able to use a sword This isn't how you write strong female characters Nothing wrong with being physically powerful But being mentally and emotionally strong is also important. Give me a female protagonist who only uses her wits to bring kingdoms to their knees!!! This kinda sets out unrealistic expectations that a girl has to use weapons to be seen as a fierce person.Now, Siri's other sister. Honestly, she's the only reason I've managed to finish this book Her character arc was the one that I enjoyed.  She's a cinnamon roll! We see the development of her from a naive teenager to a badass queenShe's not perfect. She has her flaws that made her IMO even more realistic. Ohh, and she thinks FOOD is the solution to every tense situation, lmao# relatable.Then there's the love interest aka THE EVIL KING aka Loki 2.0 Imagine Loki But make him naive and innocent. Aaaaaand you've got the King hehe. Oh... did I claim that he's my new book boyfriend? Uh, YUP!! He's my new boyfriend!!! *Clearing the throat* Return to the review Mrin!!! He's basically ALL you can expect from a book boyfriend!!!:MisunderstoodFaithful af Confused 24/7 Damaged HeroPowerful but frightened to use those powers Shy /Awkward Shares his food (This earned him brownie points lol) Supports you no matter what you do Is in love with your insane self HE IS A BIBLIOPHILE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! YAYYYYYY !!!There were other characters, too, but I found them to be mehNow the main thing that was bothering me in this book was the misogyny. It was subtle, but it was still present And as a woman, you're going to be able to pick it up very easily Let me make it clear that Sanderson was not trying to blame or attack women. He tried his hardest to write strong female leads I think that's the difference between male and female authors. Male authors write female characters as they *think* women are They're trying to make one female better by dragging another female down SMH. Amazing, how good she looks in something like that, he found himself thinking, when she takes the time to respect herselfWas that line necessary? Uh, NOPE Did you add anything to the plot?  NOPE Did it objectify women?  YUP!! This man gave his opinion and judged her when nobody asked him to do that. God forbid that a woman enjoys dressing herself According to this character, the woman was not "respecting" herself because she was wearing "revealing" clothes. There were men in this book who were going shirtless, and NO FEMALE EVER complained that their shoulders/stomach/neck were distracting!! Cause women mind their own business and avoid judging othersVisualize shattering this guy's skull and then saying, "Oops!!! I was under the influence of feminism:)"There's slut-shaming AND girl on girl hate as well!!!Find someone else's bed to climb into, you little slut!!I am yet to meet a woman who degrades another woman like thisI swear to God I haven't heard any woman EVER be this cruelNO ONE has time to fight for men!!! Most of us are trying our best to keep our grades up!!There is no time to waste on petty squabbles !!I mean, this is the 2000's rt?? I have not TIME TRAVELLED or something rt??Because I thought I was in the 1900s for a momentAnd I KNOW that the women of that time weren't like this as well!!They were suffragettes after all!!!Women help and support each other It's the patriarchy that is trying to drag us down.With this trope, I'm done. This has to end asap AND it's not going to end if we keep ignoring it OR if we think it's OK because "this is a fantasy bookThe world in which this is set is backward and male-dominated", so it's OK to have misogynous commentsIt's not OK!!! If the world is sexist, the author should address it and SAY it is bad The above statements were only degrading It had nothing to do with the "cultural values" of the world. Books can have an impact on a young mind There needs to be a positive impact It's got to start somewhere!!!I am very close to losing my voice nglNow for the spoiler sectionIf you haven't read the end, you might want to skip this. I'm going to write the spoilers for the imperialism component of this book. If you've got a trigger for imperialism as I do, you might want to read about it before you get into this book. If I had already been aware of this... I might have skipped the book completely LAST CHANCE IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GET SPOILED!!!So basically, these two kingdoms were at war. After the war ended, they colonized this country that wasn't strong enough. Now keep in mind that the indigenous people have been oppressed by both countries Their land was taken from them and they were treated as second-class citizens. They barely had any rights They have decided to rebel against these two oppressing countries But the problem here is that the indigenous people have been portrayed here as the villain!! HOW THE HECK IS POSSIBLE?!! They were FREAKING trying TO FREE their COUNTRY!!!The only reason they were labeled villains was that we followed the POVs of protagonists from oppressing countries. And according to them, the war was fought many decades ago, so everything was forgotten. How could that be forgotten? The land was never theirs, to begin with They formed a colony and ruled by power and tyranny. Look, this wasn't a "merging of cultures" I belong to a country where a lot of cultures have blended over the years. I know what it means when different cultures live in harmony. What the oppressive countries did in this book was imperialism!!! And just because a few years had passed, doesn’t give them the monopoly to rule that land.The British ruled India for almost 200 years. That doesn't mean we would have accepted them as citizens of India!! They were Invaders!!!! NOTHING WILL CHANGE THAT!!!! Now imagine the British would have said in 1947 that India belonged to them just because they had been living in India for so long. Nooooooo!!! It's not how things work!! There are dynamics of power to be considered as well And this book was doing a horrible job of it The indigenous people (I call them revolutionaries) have done a lot of morally gray things. But they've done it to defend their country They've executed it for freedomMaybe freedom doesn't mean much to many people, but as someone whose country has lost so many brave souls, just so that our generation can be free...it means everything My hands are shaking while I'm writing. I'm so madI never expected to spend most of the novel sympathizing with characters who would end up being conquerors. I am very disappointed I'm going to come back to this review when I calm down a little.(Note that these were MY opinions. I don't mean attacking someone who has read and appreciated this novel. My concern was NOT the readers who enjoyed this with the book. I would appreciate it if you would also value my opinion. If you don't think sexism and colonialism should ruin the fantasy aspect of the book..good for you!! I take those into account.I swear I'm going to curse you and your entire family if I get even one comment saying that I'm stupid for not understanding this high fantasy or some form of trolling. For discussions, I'm here. NOT  to deal with bullies. I'll be more than pleased to discuss this book with you, but only on the basis that we respect the opinion of each other)Do Note: That I will still be giving Sanderson another chance. I will be reading his Mistborn series. I have NOT given up on himTrigger warning/Content warning: Violence, torture, body horror, underage sex(fade to black scenes), animal cruelty, child neglect, religious bigotry, racism, extreme poverty, slut-shaming, misogyny, colonization, and infertility (Feel free to ask me if you need some details on triggers. I would be more than happy to provide the information)UPDATE 1Does this mean that I am starting my year with yet another fantasy ?? YESDo I regret it??!! NOThis is my first book by Brandon SandersonThere's no "WELCOME CEREMONY" in Cosmere fandom??!!I REALLY expected someone to welcome me!! *sighs*(Maybe not Bollywood style BUT I would have appreciated it ngl)It's alright...I will welcome myselfHii..my name is MrinmayiI am new to the cosmere universe I guarantee that I will be a good addition to the fandomMy notable contribution will probably be memes though Thank you!! I am really awkward during the whole "introduce yourself" ceremony My 2021 goal was to read "different" genreYET here I am guys with fantasy again