“My life to yours. My Breath become yours.”
This book blew me away, I love everything about it from the very first page to the last one. I was neither bored nor annoyed by any of the characters, I love them all, I don't even hate the villains, they are just to wise but I love how things ended for everyone despite their loss, it was worth the gain.This book has a very complex but simple magic system that I love so much, the magic use colour and breath, if you are familiar with Sanderson then you already know what a good job he did. I love the religion depicted, the history of the world, their gods and culture.
Unknowing ignorance is preferable to informed stupidity.”
World building and Writing Thank you so much Brandon Sanderson for never disappointing me in this aspect. Its like he has millions of world made up in his head and picks from inside to use in his books, cause his world building is always perfect not to mention unique, this book feature just two kingdoms and the depiction is so well done, it has streets with names, slums, rich neighbourhood etc. He also went ahead to describe the people on the streets and their clothing. I love the writing, its simple and comprehensible, the curse words are so funny. The book is written in third person multiple POV.
“I never make fun of ladies, Blushweaver,” Lightsong said, picking up his drink again. “Mocking a woman is like drinking too much wine. It may be fun for a short time, but the hangover is hell.”
Characters Lightsong  my favourite, I love everything about him, he is funny, kind, humble, selfless and truthful. There is never a boring moment with him. The fact that he is a god and people worship him is kind of weird, He even finds it weird too. There is not much I can say about him that won't be considered a spoiler so I’ll just quote some of his statements.
“I swear, my dear. Sometimes our conversations remind me of a broken sword.”  She raised an eyebrow.  “Sharp as hell,” Lightsong said, “but lacking a point.”The queen sat back. “I thought you were the god of bravery.”  “Technically.”  “You seem more like the god of jesters to me.”  “I’ve applied for the position and been turned down,” he said. “You should see the person they have doing the job. Dull as a rock and twice as ugly.”“All right, Your Grace,” Llarimar said. “What is it this time?”  “I’m sick,” Lightsong said.  “You can’t get sick, Your Grace.”  Lightsong gave a few weak coughs, to which Llarimar just rolled his eyes.  “Oh come on, Scoot,” Lightsong said. “Can’t you just play along a little?”
Siri ,I was a bit skeptical at first but she blew me away, she is so much more than people give her credit for just because she is the last child out of four royal children. So that gave her lots of freedom to do what she likes till tables turned and she was married off unexpectedly to someone she has never met. Can't say much about the marriage cause spoilers. War is looming between her kingdom and that of her husband, she wants to help but has no idea who to trust. This is how she feels when talking to Lightsong, its either this or you get confused.
 “Talking to you is like swimming in a river,” she said. “I keep getting pulled along with the current and I’m never sure when I’ll be able to take another breath.”
Vivenna  is Siri’s elder sister. She is the perfect princess unlike her sister. She is so condescending, quick to judge and prejudicial despite being kind, selfless and loyal. It really affected her and she made lots of bad decisions and trusted the wrong people because of that, but that changed when she dropped all that and became a badass better princess. I still can't believe that the woman at the ending of the book its the same one I met at the start.Susebron  didn't have a POV which is so unfair cause I would have loved to know what goes on in his head. Susebron is the God King of the Hellandran people, he is so mysterious that no one knows him personally except for a selected few. But he is so much more than everyone thinks he is and I can't help but love him so much.Vasher , I liked him from the prologue even when I had no idea which side he was on. He is as mysterious as the God King but a lot more violent. I didn't figure out who he was till the book was about to finish. His POV is action filled and I just can’t help but love his conversation with Nightblood, his talking sword. 
Sneaking, Vasher? Nightblood said. You’re terrible at sneaking.  Vasher didn’t respond.  You should attack, Nightblood said. You’re good at that.  You just want to prove how strong you are, Vasher thought.  Well, yes, the sword replied. But you do have to admit that you’re bad at sneaking.