"My life to yours. My Breath become yours.”

Buddy read with my homies at fantasy buddy reads & some of my favorite people;1.  Mary2. Patty3.Celeste  4.Choko  HOLY SHITSLAP MY ASS AND CALL ME SUE! WHAT IN GODS NAME DID I JUST READ?! ILL TELL YOU WHAT, A FUCKING MASTERPIECE.  

“Every man is a hero of his own story."

This book was absolutely mind blowing good, it took my breath away & now I'm a drab, I am once again at a loss for words after another Sanderson book. Seriously how does he manage to do it ? Like honestly how does this genius think of such complex magic systems and pull them off everytime! How does he fit so much talent into one brain? I feel like Sanderson isn't even a real person, I have never ever been so mind blown before & can't believe he manages to shock & excite me with every single book he writes. All his books are just so intense and fantastic. I literally loved every second spent reading this.I kinda wished I read this before Stormlight Archive, I know it isn't in the right order to read Warbreaker first but I feel I wouldn't have missed a few connections if I had read this first and I certainly would have understood Nightblood and Zahel a lot more. (Do not Google these characters if you plan on reading Sandersons other series). This book was just so good like all of Sandersons works it is a slow burner and doesn't get action packed until about halfway through. This is one of my favorite things about Sandersons writing style, I love the slow burn & the build up (I feel like I might die of a heart attack everytime the build up starts its just intense to say the least). I'm always on the edge of my seat because his stories are so full of twists and are the least predictable books I've read. Whenever I pick up something from his Cosmere works I find myself trying to work everything out from the beginning, I feel like a detective, I'm always on the lookout for his world hoppers especially Hoid. It's like playing Where's Wally only in a book. And I feel I can never trust anyone because the bad guy is always who you don't expect. Sandersons books should come with a warning label expect the unexpected .  This book had such a fantastic ending that I almost jumped out of my seat cheering for the characters I loved & I was so shocked to find out who the bad guy was, let me just say I never expected it to be that person. I read 50% of this book in three hours, I couldn't put it down. Everytime I turned a page I felt sick with anticipation. The almost sex scenes in this book shocked and surprised me, I loved it. I know Sanderson is a practicing Mormon and doesn't write sex scenes but it was awesome to have a little more passion in this book.Okay that's enough raving, this story is set in the Shardworld of Nathlis. It's about two sister Siri and Vivienne who are from Idris, basically Vivienne has been trained her whole life to be the God Kings wife to form a treaty between Idris & Hallandren. The king of Idris decides to send his youngest daughter Siri instead. Vivienne goes on a rescue mission to save her sister because a war is brewing between the two countries. In Hallandren there are living gods called the returned and basically shit turns sour and the girls & gods go on one hell of a ride. The magic in this story is in their breath.. Yep in their fucking breath.. What will he think of next ?

'Another precaution. In order to Awaken, the man would need three things: Breath, color, and a Command.'

 I absolutely loved Siri, I thought she was the sweetest buttercup ever, she is kind, caring, opinionated & extremely naive but she's still clever. She reminded me of Shallan from WoK. I enjoyed Siri's character development and by the end was so obsessed with her, I wanted to defend and protect her, she's so bloody sweet. Vivienne impressed me so much, like wow. Her character at the end was so badass. A few times in this book I thought she was just a pompous princess who liked tooting her own horn, but she turned my opinion around and I actually ended up liking her more then Siri. I wish I could grow my hair & change color like the princess's can, I'd never have to see a hairdresser ever again.

“You're a very difficult person to manipulate, you know.""Nonsense," he said. "You just have to promise me that I won't have to do a thing, and then I'll do anything you want.""Anything?""Anything that doesn't require doing anything.""That's nothing, then.""Is it?""Yes.""Well, that's something.” 

 Lightsong... Ahh where do I begin ? From the start I loved Lightsong, his description was so sexy. He made me laugh everytime it was his POV, but he did end up annoying me a tad. I loved his priest and the reveal at the end made me cry so much, he is truly a wonderful person and a horrible liar.

'“I swear, my dear. Sometimes our conversations remind me of a broken sword." She raised an eyebrow."Sharp as hell," Lightsong said, "but lacking a point.”

Blushweaver is a character that I couldn't stand, I do not like the bitchy pretty characters that are like "look I've got a great set of tits and no how to use them". I did however enjoy her flirtiness and enjoyed even more seeing her get rejected. I do feel bad for blushweaver because she wasn't that bad. 

'Susebron, the God King. Awesome, terrible, holy, majestic. He had been stillborn, but had Returned.'

 The GOD KING, wow.. Wow.. WOW.. totally not what I expected and I loved him so much, seriously what a precious little cinnamon roll, he is so bloody lovely. What a fantastic character & what a great twist at the end. Nightblood a talking sword, that's a creep and a smart ass without even noticing. I loved his blood thirstiness he just wants to kill everyone haha oh and I also loved when he was like "DESTROY" wow wow wow it gave me tingles. 

'He was rough. He was brutal. He had a terrible temper. But he was a good man.

VASHER.... Oh me oh my... Where have you been my whole existence ? Obviously not created, haha but my god I love him. Thanks Sanderson for once again making one of the most awesome & loveable badass character ever. He was so GRUMPY I loved it. He is my grumble bum<3 also when he drew Nightblood I had goosebumps HOLY FUCKING SHIT. That was such an incredible fight scene.I really wish I could say more and write down all my theories/discoveries but I want everyone to enjoy a spoiler free review. I'm happy to keep my other secrets safe in my brain haha.

"Unknowing ignorance is preferable to informed stupidity.” 

 I recommend this book to every single person, go READ IT NOW or I'll DESTROY you with nightblood.For people who have read this book my only theory that was right was shipping Vivienne & Vasher <33