I originally had not planned on even reading this book because the Twilight series instills much rage within my soul, but I was in a dry spell for reading, so I decided to give it a try. I have to say I really enjoyed it much more than the Twilight series. I have seen a lot of people complain about how slow the beginning was, but I didn’t really notice. It sucked me in pretty quickly. It was very clearly a Stephenie Meyer book, though, which did lead to certain amounts of anger and eyes rolling nearly out of my head.---My biggest complaint with Stephenie Meyer is her romantic plots. I feel like I’ve accidentally picked up a Harlequin romance. It is super cheesy and super melodramatic. It makes my brain hurt. Here’s an example: “I stared into Jared’s eyes, and the strangest thing happened. All the melting, melding, welding that I had just been through was shoved aside, into the smallest part of my body, the little corner that I took up physically. The rest of me yearned toward Jared with the same desperate, half-crazed hunger I’d felt since the first time I’d seen him here. This body barely belonged to me or to Mel—it belonged to him” (595, ARC). WHAT! First, horribly cheesy. Second, nobody but you owns your body, and if you find it romantic to think otherwise, that is unhealthy. Let’s learn some emotional and physical independence!What the hell is up with underage characters and older men?! Why could the females not be slightly older? This is supposedly being marketed as an adult book, so maybe it’s a bit alienating to make your main character(s) 16 when she first meets Jared who was 26, then 17 when she was starting in a new body (which they thought was younger!) when Ian is in his mid-20’s (I am guessing).I’m just glad the romantic interests were not supposed to be seen as perfect. They had similar flaws as Edward & Jacob, but we were not reminded every 20 seconds how easily they dazzled everyone. Jared can barely stand Wanderer for most of the book. He would kill her easily if it weren’t Mel’s body. He is cruel and violent towards her. Ian is the first to physically assault her. And then in the end he does it again, while also being a bit violent toward Sunny & Jared. Of course, Ian ends up pretty near perfect with his perfect understanding and perfect kindness and perfect love. But I will accept this because I think that his perfect personality fits with the gentle, loving, peaceful personality of Wanderer.---While still cheesy, there were bits that were not romance-based that were emotionally compelling. I felt Wanderer’s fear about what she had to do in the end. In the tunnel on the way to Doc for the last time, when she asked Jared where everyone slept when it rained, my heart ached for her. I thought that was a lovely way of noting how much she still really wanted to find out about this world and how much she was going to miss and that life was going to go on without her. I know, I know, we are being emotionally manipulated, because if you don’t know how it’s going to end before you even pick it up, you haven’t read enough in life. But if you put yourself in the character’s place when she has a very clear idea of what is going to happen, it’s pretty sad.---The thing that made me love this is that it is not a romance. It is a story about humanity with romance thrown in. I like looking at humanity through alien eyes. I like learning what it means to be human with Wanderer. I like the interactions between Mel and Wanderer. I like that Wanderer picked up sarcasm from Mel. I love how absolutely confused she initially is by humans. She views humans as violent, hateful creatures. She is confused when they feed and protect her. This completely goes against her view of humanity.I like how we perceive the humans through her eyes, how we get an idea of their motives from her which she is normally wrong about, and then we slowly see the change. This is seen especially with Doc. I enjoyed seeing how Wanderer reacted to humans and how her perception of them changed. She goes from being terrified of humans to constantly surprised and confused by how good they end up being to loving them and embracing her own humanity. But throughout it she is ashamed of betraying her kind and feels like a traitor. She constantly second guesses herself, whether it’s in favor of the humans or the souls. It’s not until the end when she really accepts that maybe what she does is wrong, but if it brings about good then it’s the best thing for her to do.---I like the question of how much of yourself comes from some ethereal personality/soul and how much comes from your physical body. What makes us human? What parts of us do people fall in love with? Are we more physical, spiritual, emotional? It’s a bit cheesy (have I said that enough?), but I like the idea portrayed when Ian says, “It’s not the face, but the expressions on it. It’s not the voice, but what you say. It’s not how you look in that body, but the things you do with it” (p. 397, ARC). And then we get to see Wanderer in two different bodies which change her a bit. We have weak v. strong, etc. When in Mel’s body, Wanderer feels a physical longing for Jared but an emotional one for Ian. After she is put in a new body, she still loves Jared. Melanie occasionally seems overly familiar with Ian before remembering who she is. Jared stares searchingly and confusedly at Wanderer. What makes someone who they are? What part of a person do others connect with?---There are a lot of small touches that really pleased me. I love how people act and react in this book.I thought it was hilarious when Wes (?) said, “You may have taken the planet, but you’re losing this game,” when they were playing soccer. That's just funny to me. If you can't use humor to cope with the apocalypse, you'll never make it.A reaction that rings completely true is when, after Wanderer walks in on the dissections and is absolutely horrified, the guys are confused about why she is so upset when they were sure to cover the bodies so she couldn’t have seen anything. However, they only covered the human bodies. They still see the souls as alien and other which negates understanding and compassion.I love what happens in the following bit: “’Ah,’ the seeker’s familiar voice moaned from the human body. ‘Ah.’ / The room went utterly silent. Everyone looked at me, as if I were the expert on humans” (p. 553, ARC). Of course that is how they would react when she is the one who knows how to bring the humans back!---One theme of the book is belonging. What makes one belong? Wanderer does not think she belongs in the cave because she is not human. Many of the humans agree. But she becomes part of the community, and her friends, who have gotten to know her and thus care about her, believe she belongs. Jeb never calls her ‘it’, and as the others get to know her they stop doing this. Lacey is instantly accepted by many of the humans because she is human (or becomes human again). But she has a hateful personality, and most of the main characters do not like her. Jeb refers to her as ‘that creature’. So what makes us belong somewhere?---I think the characterization is actually not terrible.Ian, for instance, initially comes off as cruel and violent (he tries to kill her), but he’s just reacting to his world being taken over by beings who want to basically kill all humans. We see that he has the capacity to be kind, to gain perspective, to learn to understand. Granted, it seemed a bit incongruous to go from Killer to Most Compassionate & Loving Person Alive Ever in such a short time, but I'll take what I can get from Meyer.Even Kyle is developed, though it mostly comes up in the end. Initially, he is just the villain of the story, but once Sunny is brought in we see that, yeah, he is rash and selfish and arrogant and angry, but he can be gentle and kind. And we don’t see this 180 done on his character where all of a sudden, out of the blue, he is capable of love. We know he had a girlfriend before this all started. Someone, at some point, must have seen some good stuff in him. And his grief at losing his world is manifest through anger and violence towards those who destroyed it. Sunny looks at him as her protector, but he doesn’t jump into a relationship with Sunny. He wants Jodi back. But through his interactions with Sunny, he gains understanding. He is confused by her reaction to initially meeting him and is surprised he can be so kind to her. He is compassionate when she realizes what is going to happen and is terrified, he didn’t realize it would be that hard. Once Jodi doesn’t come back, he has Sunny put back in her body, and he takes care of her. But he’s confused by it all; he doesn’t know what he’s doing or how to have a relationship with her. As shocked as I am by this, Meyer is able to create a character that grows but still remains himself.---I did have a problem with the ending. It’s just too neat and happy. While I was amused and pleased that Jared held a knife to Doc to get him to save Wanderer, it’s way too pat of an ending. Of course, you knew it would happen from the beginning, but I have to wonder whether it would be a better ending to just let her die. She’s lived, she’s learned, it’s her time to go. Life and love go on even in the face of death, as Meyer reminds us numerous times. Show us how the humans cope, how they do on their own once she’s gone. Of course, she is the main character of the book, so maybe allowing her to continue learning how to be human is not such a bad thing. And we know how Meyer hates making her characters suffer any type of consequence...