Please note that this review is for a graphic adaptation of The Hobbit by J.R.R. Tolkien. For my review of the original book, please link here:Jean's reviewThis graphic adaptation of The Hobbit was first published in 1990. The artwork is by David Wenzel, and J.R.R. Tolkien’s story was abridged and adapted by Chuck Dixon. A new edition followed, for which David Wenzel made improvements and additions to the original edition, including a completely new cover design.Just as The Hobbit was an immediate success 80 years ago, so this adaptation has become one of the best-loved graphic novels of the last quarter of a century. It is a beautiful and worthy tribute to the classic story.Most people know the bare outline of the tale. The main character is Bilbo Baggins, a contented home-loving hobbit, who likes the quiet life. However, against his better judgement, he is tempted by the thought of an “adventure”. His life is then turned upside down when he joins the wizard Gandalf and a group of thirteen dwarves. He is employed by them as their “burglar”, when they go on a dangerous quest to reclaim their treasure which had been stolen long ago. Bilbo becomes increasingly involved, meeting with trolls, goblins and elves, and a strange slippery, amphibious creature who calls himself “Gollum”. Using his brains, and with several opportunities for inventing devious riddles, Bilbo eventually realises that it is up to him to enable the dwarves to achieve their long dream and reclaim their homeland. Alone he must face and outwit the monster who now guards the stolen hoard of treasure. And this monster is a much-feared dragon, the most dreaded in all Middle-earth, a worm called Smaug.There are so many fantasy elements, and such drama in this story that it is an illustrator’s dream. David Wenzel clearly has much respect for Tolkien’s story, and has hand painted his hundreds of illustrations in full colour throughout. They are beautiful and very painterly. Here is the cover illustration:And here is a link to the page on David Wenzel’s website with seven illustrations from this book:Link hereIf you click on each of the tiny thumbnails, you will see how he uses both muted and vibrant colour, and line, to create the effects he wishes. David Wenzel credits both Arthur Rackham and Edmund Dulac as two of his influences, and this is quite evident in his work.I particularly like the lush evocative illustrations of the Shire, and the atmospheric ones in the dragon’s cave. Most startling for me is the way David Wenzel has captured exactly what Bilbo looks like in my mind’s eye: a short dumpy male with a bit of a pot belly and plain, almost ugly features. He has a bulbous nose and a rubicund good-natured face. All the dwarves are well-drawn individuals and very convincing, as is Gollum, who is uncannily like the Gollum in the films. Smaug is a mean-looking and terrifying beast. It is perhaps as well to remember that this graphic novel was created a good decade before Peter Jackson’s first film of “The Lord of the Rings” and far, far before any of his films of The Hobbit. Yet there are several similarities. Both David Wenzel and Peter Jackson incorporated J.R.R. Tolkien’s maps, calligraphy and charts, for instance, hand drawn and coloured by the author himself. It is Tolkien who is responsible for the beautiful lettering and cartographic design, not any later artist. In a similar way, David Wenzel seems to have given a nod to Tolkien’s original water colours, in his choice of illustrative techniques and palette. The text by Chuck Dixon is also excellent and well matched. Although both David Wenzel and Chuck Dixon are American, the language used is English, and much of it is straight from Tolkien, especially the dialogue in the speech bubbles. The strip comments are long and extensive; this graphic novel takes a long time to read. Only once did I notice a mistake - and it was a humdinger! Near the beginning Gandalf says “gotten”. I can imagine the philologist and stickler for authenticity, Mr. J.R.R. Tolkien, would have blanched at that! There were a couple of instances where the American “o” instead of “ou” had crept in: for example using “vigor” instead of vigour, or “flavor” instead of flavour, but they were rare. And I particularly appreciated the precise use of punctuation, with inverted commas always correctly placed, and use being made of semi-colons.I was surprised how much I enjoyed this book, as I am not the target audience for graphic novels, and consequently not very easy to please. If you want to read a graphic adaptation of The Hobbit, then you need look no further. This is the one. It is hard to imagine how it could be bettered, within this format. And for that reason, I rate it a full five stars.