The hobbit is a good book with a lot of description, some humor, good information, and not much rambling off. The book gets to the point and doesn't often waste time telling you something that doesn't relate to the book. It describes feelings of characters in great detail so you can really feel and imagine what they did. Not only all of what I mentioned but this book so far is great, but it also says kind things to people. When they said: "There is more in you of good than you know, child of the kindly West." And when he said: "Let's have no more argument. I have chosen Mr. Baggins and that ought to be enough for all of you". That took us straight to the point instead of wasting time rambling on about something that in all essence doesn't matter. When they said: "He felt a different person and much fiercer in spite of an empty stomach as he wiped his sword and put it back in his sheath". The emotion could be felt. It is obvious he had a more intense feeling of preparedness to fight! This book also has a lot of other good stuff too, like the battle of five armies or when he fought with the dragon! It gets intense!There are a few negative qualities about this book. In some parts it gets too descriptive and it seems like the narrator talks forever, describing to the extent that it feels like there isn't an end to the words! The characters are very honest with each other, but sometimes it just doesn't matter and wastes time. When the narrator said, "Dwarves are not heroes, but calculating folk with a great idea of valuing money," it was pointless and had no pertinence to the story. Sure, it tells you information about the Dwarves and was semi-apologetic for what was previously said, but as the reader it just doesn't matter. Sometimes, the book is just spread out too far. When they said, "The most that can be said for the dwarves is this: that they intended to pay Bilbo really handsomely for his services; they had brought him to do a nasty job for them, and they did not mind the poor little fellow doing it if he would..." They could have made that same sentence but with more pertinence to the story. It has a few words that are confusing and it takes a while to understand.While reading the book I wondered, "What does Gandalf look like?" or "Why is it so hard to find Rivendell? This is going on forever.” Well, explained later in the story Gandalf is tall compared to the hobbits of course. He also has a long white beard. It took so long to find Rivendell because the path they were following had been marked where to go, but it was hard to see because moss had grown over the path and covered the marks.Over all I think this is a great book. From the evidence presented above, this book is excellent and there are only a few things to dislike. I liked this book because, it was easy to understand and wrap my mind around. It gets a little dragged out at times, but for the most part this book was great and I would recommend it to anyone with some free time.