"Swords! Guns! Massive ka-booms!""The House of Hades is open for business.""Doors of Death, here we come."The Quest of Seven Demigods continues from Riordan's biggest cliffhanger yet at the end of The Mark of Athena, and Chaos is everywhere: literally and figuratively! The author must've been looking forward to this one, where there are too many possibilities to make things turn out terribly, which usually suits the penultimate adventures of demigods. And this one - the fourth of the series - was by far the best of HoO for me (just like the 4th one of PJO being my favorite of that series). "Annabeth Chase, died age 17. BA-BOOM. Died of massive injuries while leaping like an idiot into the abyss of Chaos. BA-BOOM. Survived by her father, mother and tow stepbrothers who barely knew her. BA-BOOM."The two interconnected plot lines, are both eventful, thrilling, full of suspense and still hilarious at times. But I liked the Tartarus adventure the best, which was entirely new territory for both PJO and HoO stories up to now. Dark and terrible as it was, I do wish that part were a bit longer. Surprising encounters down in the abyss were nicely laid out, making the reader fall in love with two most unlikely characters."Never EVER sleep in Tartarus."Argo II adventure was more towards fun side, but still had it's terrifying moments where each demigod faces their own opportunity to come through for the team. It felt like preparing the personalities and highlighting innate character qualities of the five demigods. And the re-appearance of certain characters complemented the flow of the plot of Argo II team nicely."the pretty ghost ladies who serve Persephone are good. Exploding zombies are bad."In terms of pure adventure, I have a hard time picturing the next (and last) book of HoO surpassing The House of Hades, for, this offered the most entertaining adventure of the both PJO-HoO combined. I hope the next one will not fall behind by a lot. Oh, and, it's very kind of the author to end things on relatively relaxed status for once!"Ships to fix! Festus to check! Earth goddesses to punch in the face! What are we waiting for?"