I’m on BookTube now! =)"Love is no game! It is no flowery softness! It is hard work - a quest that never ends. It demands everything from you - especially the truth. Only then does it yield rewards."By now I read so many of Uncle Rick’s books but I’m still surprised whenever he throws in wise quotes like that. Everything Cupid said is true though and my heart bled for the brave young hero who had to face him and paid the price. T_T But I’m getting ahead of myself here. I better start at the beginning of the book and take it from there. So first things first. The last book ended with Annabeth and Percy falling into Tartarus and yes, I’m not gonna lie, that cliffhanger had me worried af and I basically sat there for a couple of minutes looking like Edvard Munch’s painting “The Scream”. XD”Her voice caught on the word friend. Percy was a lot more than that. Even boyfriend really didn’t cover it. They’d been through so much together; at this point Percy was part of her – a sometimes annoying part, sure, but definitely a part she could not live without.” I absolutely loved and adored the relationship between Annabeth and Percy in here. They’ve come such a long way! When they started out they were somewhat reluctant friends but boy, did their relationship grow over those last nine books. By now they are such a great couple and I was so glad they had each other when they made their way through Tartarus. Their journey isn’t only extremely dangerous, it’s also almost hopeless and it was so good to see that they were in this together. Because quite honestly, if they’d have had to get through this all alone like Nico had to, I’m convinced they wouldn’t have been able to make it. ”Percy, wake me for second watch. Don’t be a hero.”He gave her that smirk she’d come to love. “Who, me?”Ahhh it was so heart-warming to see them work together. They truly fought against all odds and the things and monsters they had to deal with were quite a challenge. And this is me putting it mildly. I’m pretty sure I wouldn’t have survived even a second in Tartarus. XD I think because of that “The House of Hades” actually turned out to be the most serious book of the series so far. I already said that “The Mark of Athena” was very intense but this book definitely raised the bar even higher. The overall vibe of the book was very dark and gloomy which wasn’t only due to the atmosphere of Tartarus but also due to the perilous and heart-wrenching moments we live through alongside the characters.”We’re going to find a way to stop Gaia,” Hazel said. “We’re going to rescue our friends from Tartarus. We’re going to keep the crew and the ship together and we’re going to stop Camp Jupiter and Camp Half-Blood from going to war. We’re going to do it all.”And there are plenty of them. T_T So while Annabeth and Percy make their way through the hostile landscape of Tartarus the rest of our heroes have to face their own challenges. I personally loved that all of them got a moment to shine and I think it’s amazing how Uncle Rick always manages to balance the heroes and their quests. We have so many characters in here, yet it still felt like all of them got a proper character arc. No matter if it’s Frank who excelled himself by fighting through a horde of monsters in order to safe Hazel and Nico, no matter if it’s Piper who single-handedly fights antagonistic wind gods or Hazel who grows into her own powers and does things she never thought possible. They all learned their lessons and faced challenges that forced them to grow as heroes and people. And they learned to trust each other. Speaking of which, I’m glad that Frank and Nico had that short precious moment when they geeked out over the Mythomagic game. It was good to see that Frank started to accept Nico and wasn’t afraid of him anymore. Plus Frank became so badass and really grew into his strengths. Frank was faster. He lunged at Trip and slammed him into the wall, his fingers locked around the god’s throat. “Think about your next words,” Frank warned, deadly calm. “Or, instead of beating my sword into a ploughshare, I will beat it into your head.” I never thought I’d see the day on which cute and gentle Frank Zhang scares a god but wow, his experiences on the bridge truly changed him. I suppose you can’t go through something like that without it altering your character and personality. Which brings me right to my precious son Nico di Angelo, who went through a major and life-altering change as well. We finally get the reason why Nico is neither here nor there, why he avoided becoming a part of either of the two camps and why he seems to dislike Percy so much. The sad thing is that he’s truly an outsider because as the son of Hades he already has a difficult starting position; no one dares to be friends with him because they are scared and this always broke my heart in the former books.”I’m the son of Hades, Jason. I might as well be covered in blood or sewage, the way people treat me. I don’t belong anywhere. I’m not even from this century. But even that’s not enough to set me apart. I’ve got to be – to be –“Still, the truth Cupid forces from him... it surprised me. I probably should have seen it coming but I didn’t?! It explains so many things though. And my heart broke for Nico all over again. I should have known that he’s gay but I somehow didn’t realize it until Cupid forced him to admit the truth. I guess it’s because Uncle Rick went about in such a clever way. We never got a Nico POV and he was never one of the main heroes of the series. Up until now Nico was always reduced to being a side-character so that made it difficult to get a grasp on his character and personality. Knowing Uncle Rick he did that on purpose in order to make this revelation even more distinct and visible though. Clever Uncle Rick, so damn clever! I can only salute you. But oh my, did my heart bleed for Nico!! T_T I hated that Cupid forced him to admit it in front of Jason, because as part of the LGBTQ+ community there is nothing worse than people who force you to come out. Everyone should be allowed to come out when they want to and feel that the moment is right. Cupid took that away from him and I hate it when that happens! It should be your choice and no one else’s! My poor precious son! I want to hug him and tell him that everything will be alright. I just hope that he will be able to get over it and I really, really hope that he’ll find true love in one of the next books. No one deserves it more than him. After everything he went through in those last couple of books he deserves a happy ending! Please Uncle Rick, give it to him! My son needs to be happy! <333”Need to – “ Hazel gagged and pointed below.“Yeah, go.” Nico kissed her cheek, which Piper found surprising. He hardly ever made gestures of affection, even to his sister. He seemed to hate physical contact.And last but not least I want to talk about my other precious son Leo Valdez! Ahh Leo didn’t have a lot of chapters in here but boy, were they bittersweet. I loved those couple of chapters so much because they added even more depth to his character and therefore caused me to love him even more. Leo finally got a love interest but of course Uncle Rick had to make it especially difficult for my boy. *sighs* Ahh... those chapters. *insert Jungkook’s “Oh my heartu” gif here* I’m still so heartbroken for him and I really hope that he’ll be able to be with the girl he loves. He needs a happy ending at least as much as Nico does. XD Of all the possible love interests for Leo, you had to give him Calypso?! Poor Leo already thinks he’s not good enough and then he ends up on her island and knows full well that she always falls for muscular and sexy heroes. I’m not gonna lie though; I absolutely loved their enemies-to-lovers relationship. XD Plus, I think because Leo isn’t the usual choice the gods would send to Calypso’s island he’s actually the first hero who would be able to break her curse. Usually it’s Calypso who falls in love with the heroes but they always have a significant other they want to get back to. But not Leo. He’s single and not the typical hero in shiny armour which makes him very special. Plus, by the end of his stay at the island it’s not only Calypso who is in love with him, but Leo also fell for her so I’m sure they could be great together. I genuinely hope he’ll find her island again and will be able to save her. He needs a happy ending too! <333 "Oh, yeah." Leo grinned. "You're really warming up to me."Her face got even redder. "You are the most insufferable person I have ever met! I was only returning a favour. You fixed my fountain."All told, I loved “The House of Hades”! There happened so many important things in here and the character arcs of our heroes were amazing! I’m always in awe of Uncle Rick’s narrative skills and I can’t wait to see how the rest of the story is going to unfold. This book was so, so dark but no matter how dark it got, there was always a glimmer of hope. Our heroes are driven by one of the strongest and most ancient emotions - Love and as we all know: Omnia vincit amor! ;-P Ahh, I need book 5 asap!”You promised, Seaweed Brain. We would not get separated! Ever again!”“You’re impossible!”“Love you too!”__________________________I absolutely loved this!!This was so damn good I can’t even! Wow! This series gets better and better with every book and I live and breathe for it. Also it gets darker and darker. Boy was this dark!! But I love all my beloved characters and Percy, Nico and Leo will always be my precious sons! And Hazel Levesque? She’s such a badass heroine! <333Full RTC soon! Stay tuned! =) Fine me on:My BlogInstagram___________________________Finally! FINALLY! I’m going to read this book! I’ve been dying to borrow this from my library and it was never there, but now (at the risk of repeating myself) I finally got it and since I even put it on My November TBR I’m going to read it now!There better be my precious son Nico di Angelo in it! <333Then again it’s called “The House of Hades” so there's bound to be a little bit of Nico, right??!!