I now have a YouTube channel that I run with my brother, called 'The Brothers Gwynne'. Check it out - The Brothers Gwynne
My expanded review on BookNest... The Rage of Dragons BookNest reviewI have just finished reading The Rage of Dragons, and the fact that I read this in two days is testimony to how much I loved it!The Rage of Dragons is one of the greatest books I have ever read. It is a heart-wrenching, mind-blowing tale of love and hatred, of sacrifice and inspiration. But most of all, this is an epic story of vengeance.I have never read an African-inspired fantasy novel before, so was not sure what to expect and did not know if it would grip me. Well, I was wrong to doubt. Winter paints the culture in a magnificent manner, quickly creating a depth to the world that I rarely encounter.“For it’s in the crucible of hard days that potential becomes power.”It is a thought provoking story that tackles issues on social hierarchy, attitude to lower classes, and the effects of war on the mind. Whenever I could not hide away to read, I found myself thinking about this novel. About the challenges the characters faced, how they would cope, how their every action defined them and what would happen next. That is the sign of a great book! “Life is nothing more than moments in time. To achieve greatness, you have to give up those moments. You have to give your life to your goal.”One of the greatest aspects of this novel were the battle scenes. They were vivid, and immersive. I felt like I was witnessing the horror of war, and I got goosebumps during the small scale skirmishes that brought to mind the team fights from Gladiator.I could go on all day about how much I loved this book and why, but I have just chosen a few of the most prominent ones. I will write an expanded review for BookNest where I cover the rest very soon :). But, as I have tried to explain, and hope I did, this book is a must read! I will struggle to wait for the sequel to be released, but I consider myself fortunate I got to read this magnificent book.20th FEBIn a recent newsletter from Evan Winter, it was said that the cover has been designed for book two, The Fires of Vengeance. And will be shared soon!Also the actual content is in its final refining stages!Really cannot wait for the sequel. One of my top five anticipated books this year!