4.5 StarsA heart-stoppingly ferocious fantasy achievement, The Rage of Dragons is exhilarating in its execution and an enthralling debut you won’t want to miss.Let’s not deny it. We have all bought a book based on its cover alone. Most of the times we get lucky and the story is great, but now and then we feel like fools for making such impulsive purchases without checking reviews. The Rage of Dragons lured me in with just such a cover in a moment of weakness, but I can happily say the contents match, if not surpass the exterior. Before I get carried away though, let’s take a moment to appreciate the art of Karla Ortiz:The story starts with a roar of a prologue, dropping us into a massive battle that immediately thrills with its sheer scope, breathtaking duels, bloodthirsty ferocity and glimpses of unknown magic. It’s reminiscent of the prologue that Brandon Sanderson wrote in The Way of Kings, in that it is a glimpse of a terrible event with far-reaching consequences for the story we are about to follow and it takes place in the distant past. As the story shifts to our present, we meet our protagonist Tau, who is no-one important. He is a Lesser among his people, the Omehi, whose society is based on a caste system. Tau serves his betters as is his place and expected of him. Some would rage against these shackles and want more than they are given, but Tau, for the most part, is content. He has a plan, and with some minor luck he will be able to avoid becoming a soldier; fodder in the everlasting war his people fight against the natives. If his plan succeeds, peace and the woman he loves will be within his grasp. Fate is ever a cruel and fickle mistress though, and events cause a dramatic shift in Tau’s future outlook, giving birth to a burning hatred within him and a plot device that stokes the flames of my bookish heart:VENGEANCE.To quote one of my favourite films:
"My name is Maximus Decimus Meridius, Commander of the Armies of the North, General of the Felix Legions, loyal servant to the true emperor, Marcus Aurelius. Father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife. And I will have my vengeance, in this life or the next.". 
GOOSEBUMPS…I don’t want to cover the plot much more than that, because this is such a great experience of a book, but I will say that Tau is consumed by an overwhelming anger, hatred and the need for revenge, and through sheer will and determination sets himself on the path of becoming an elite soldier in order to fulfill his vengeance. His single-mindedness is an effective tool that helps his quest of becoming the weapon he needs to be, but boy could it be frustrating at times. So much so that at one point I complained to a friend that I wanted to slap Tau in the hope of removing his blinkers. His character motivations are always believable though, and I found myself easily invested in him, despite his moments of madness, bad judgement or stubbornness. Tau is not always likeable, but he is human, and just like any of us, fallible. How do we react in the face of violence, murder, bloodshed? Can we rise above and find a path to peace? Can we break the cycle of violence? Turn the other cheek? Forgive? These are some of the questions that Evan Winter asks of his creations, and there is a delight in seeing how they respond.Speaking of the characters... The only quibble I have with the story is something I noticed about halfway through that felt off. There is a distinct lack of women featured in the story, apart from Tau’s love interest, Zuri, and one other. And it is weird because the Omehi venerates females. They are above men in standing, with many women in powerful positions. They are ruled by a queen for example, and their magic wielders known as Gifted, are all extremely powerful women. Thinking back on the story, I think there was a female warrior among the enemies of the Omehi, so perhaps it’s a cultural thing specific to them. I just felt it needed a mention, as once you notice - it’s hard to ignore. Hopefully, they get more page time in book two, because the little bit of them we see shows interesting, complex characters that can add even more to the story.Hints of a larger world are present as early as the gripping opening sequence, but The Rage of Dragons chooses to tell us a much more intimate, personal story of one man’s vengeance, and as such we are confined to a small corner of what sounds like a vast, imaginative world. The author has mentioned that the story is African-inspired and I imagine I enjoyed this facet a bit more than most people will, recognising many of the foreign words. I was born in a place called KwaZulu Natal and Zulu is one of the main languages. Words such as Indlovu (elephants) as a name for a warrior group or Inyoku (snake) for a warrior that is said to strike very fast or even Isihogo, which means Hell, are prominent throughout and I loved knowing their meaning. Although I have heard that the words used are Xhosa, they are similar if not the same as many of the Zulu words that I know (I have since read that they are mutually intelligible) and they reinforced the African feel, deepening my immersion. 
“I can't imagine a world where the man holding a sword does not have the last say over the man without one.”
With vengeance being Tau’s main driving force, it is not surprising that scintillating action takes centre stage in The Rage of Dragons. And I mean, FRONT and CENTRE. Major battles, skirmishes and duels are prevalent throughout, but that would mean nothing if they weren't well written, and boyyyyyyy are they well written. Evan Winter should not be able to pull off this level of skill in a debut, but he must have made a sacrifice to the writing gods because he is clearly gifted. Scintillating, immersive, vivid, ferocious and cinematic - there are not many authors who can match the pulse-pounding action scenes that The Rage of Dragons brings to the table and I couldn't get enough of it. Five hundred plus pages? Who knew? The pace never flagged, and even though this is a chonker of a book it was over to soon. The sequel, please Mr Winter!
“That’s the price. Life is nothing more than moments in time. To achieve greatness, you have to give up those moments. You have to give your life to your goal.”
Without a doubt, The Rage of Dragons is a stellar debut and easily one of the best books I have read this year. Don’t take my word for it though. Read it, experience it for yourself and remember Evan Winter’s name; he is going to be a giant in fantasy.Oh, did I mention that there are DRAGONS?Should have led with that probably :)We should forgive our enemies, but not before they are hanged.—Heinrich HeinePS: You can read the opening chapters for free over here