Actual Rating: 3.5The Black Tides of Heaven centers around a pair of twins, Mokoya & Akeha, as they navigate a complicated political landscape & constantly dodge the schemes set forth by their mother, the Protector.It always excites me when I get the opportunity to read a fantasy story with nontraditional setting. Though this is only a novella, author J.Y. Yang manages to pack in rich cultural aspects, along with a magic system that reads like a more complex & spiritually oriented version of the system utilized by Avatar: The Last Airbender, (which is a huge favorite of mine!)The story rushes out of the gate, immediately establishing an extensive territory under the rule of a ruthless Protector & placing our main characters in an uncomfortable opposition to the many different levels of expectation in their lives. I appreciate the combination of a solid magic system, technology, religious influences, and a uniquely relevant take on gender. In this world, each person decides the gender they will identify as when they are ready. Until the decision is made, a person identifies by singular "they." Even though my inner English scholar has to consciously rewrite her conditioning that the word "they" cannot be singular, I'm so thrilled to see this pronoun used. Especially in a Fantasy setting.Our language is slowly evolving to encompass how others wish to be identified, and its the use of these words in mainstream writing that leads to education & normalization. But it isn't too often you find novels in the Science Fiction/Fantasy genre address LGBT+ issues, and I'm blessed to add this one to the stack of those I've recently read.I did struggle a bit with the pacing of this novella, as I feel the first half weighs a lot more than the second half, if that makes sense? We spend a lot time with the twins as children, learning the ins & outs of their relationship with each other & to those around them. There is much less time devoted to understanding them once they become adults, and that affected my ability to relate to them.Though it's clear from the beginning that Akeha is meant to draw more of the focus, I couldn't help feeling that Mokoya is a bit slighted in how she is allowed to connect to the reader. Now, this could very well be the point of novella, as I remember seeing that The Black Tides of Heaven & The Red Threads of Fortune can be read in either order. Because there is a large time leap around the halfway point, I got the feeling of missing out on a lot of Akeha's development. The story continues to skip forward here & there, ultimately covering quite a large span of years from start to finish. I could have done with a bit more development of both the characters, and the political situation that arises during the second half of the story.Whereas the introduction takes a slower approach to revealing the characters & their connections, the following pieces feel a bit slapdash in terms of organization. I'm definitely interested in seeing how The Red Threads of Fortune ties into this novella & expands the story because the groundwork laid in this installment is a perfect mix of enticing & uncommon. P.S. These covers are S I C K & gorgeous to look at on the shelf just in case anyone was wondering!