There's a lot of interesting ideas in J.Y Yang's debut, The Black Tides of Heaven, but they are rarely given the requisite time to breathe. This is, in part, due to the way that Yang has decided to roll out their Tensorate series. Instead of a novel, the series arrives on the scene in two novellas from Tor.com's novella imprint (which I've previously enjoyed). So, for being a brief read, the book covers a lot more ground that it's modest page count would suggest.The tale in The Black Tides of Heaven revolves around twin siblings Akeha and Mokoya, children of a savage dictator. The twins were conceived as bargaining chips in an exchange with a magical monastery, and through this exchange children imbued with ability to manipulate the Slack (the magic system) can be brought up outside of their mother's cruel influence. Yang, who identifies as non-binary, has crafted a unique gender neutral world: everyone is born genderless and chooses their gender later in life. I rather enjoyed this unique world that is different from other speculative novels which explore gender. The bulk of the novel spends time with the twins, their relationship, and the fallout from their eventual gender selection. These are, by far, the most fleshed-out sections of the novella which offers a full spectrum of gender exploration.By contrast, the world that Yang has crafted is given the short-shrift. There's a lot of interesting ideas, characters, and magic that remain unexplored by the novella's end. It isn't the sort of book that promises future exploration or sets up mysteries: it just uses the magic world as a backdrop. That's all fine, but it lacks the punch of serious world-building that I'd been anticipating. The magic, martial arts monastery? I guess I'll have to wait for the next instalment! I feel a bit bad giving an entirely negative review here when the second novella could provide a counterpoint to the problems I've listed. All the same, if the second novella dispels these complaints, then I'd argue that they should have been released as a single novel rather than two separate pieces. I'm jumping right into The Red Threads of Fortune to compare, so be on the lookout for that review soon!