09/03/2016 Buddy read with Jessica, Robin, Choko, and Maria over at BB&B b/c we are craving UF, also Jessica loves this series and seeing that she is never wrong.... :-)  “By my word and at my command, you will investigate a murder, and you will force justice back into this kingdom. You will do this thing.” There was a long pause. I was starting to think the message had ended when she continued, softly, “Find out who did it, Toby, please. Make sure they don’t win. If you were ever my friend, Toby, please. . . ”  This books starts off with a bang, and captivates you so completely that it was difficult to remember to breathe. I just wanted to devour this book, with its magical world of Fae, and changelings, and Cait Sidhes and rose goblins and Selkie’s and so many more fantastical creatures. The thing with UF is, if it’s done right, it will blow your mind and take you on a journey you won’t want to end. October ‘Toby’ Daye is a changeling, half human, half fae. She’s engaged to a human, Cliff, who doesn’t know that she’s not fully human, and they have a daughter whom they both love very much. She’s a P.I. and a knight errant, and currently on the trail of a possible kidnapper, trying to find the missing wife and daughter of her liege lord, the Duke Sylvester Torquill. But then things go horribly wrong, and her whole life is upended by evil Fae, and for fourteen years she is lost to the world. Everyone made to believe she was dead.  After returning to herself, she is shunned by those whom she loves most, and she turns her back on the Fae world. Trying to get through every day by denying who she is. But the Fae world refuses to let her go, and the murder of pureblood Fae, Countess Evening Winterrose, demands Toby’s return to her world.  We hated each other so well and loved each other so badly . . . and I had no idea what I was going to do without her. See how beautiful this author writes…..I just love it. Evening placed a dying curse on Toby, forcing her to find her killer/s, or she would forfeit her own life. And so Toby begins her journey back into the world she tried to ignore, connecting with old acquaintances, not sure who is evil and who is good.  Toby is a fantastic heroine. I love how pragmatic she views and approaches everything. She has been dealt a really rough hand in life, and because she is a half-blood she is not very powerful, she’s not perfect and she makes many mistakes. BUT but she owns her mistakes, and she is determined to keep her promises even when they are wrong. She has a lot of heart and I liked that she wasn't all powerful and perfect in everything she does, and I cannot wait to see how she grows more as a person as the series continues. I must admit the first 30% she was quite negative in her view of things, which is understandable after what happened, but after that point she was just awesome.  Rose goblins are built like porcupines—if you rub them the right way, you don’t have to worry about the spines. They’re sort of like people in that regard, too.  This world is absolutely fantastic, and I just love the way the author writes. The rose goblin is one of my favorite new characters, and I WANT ONE. The plot of the story was strong and very interesting, and amazingly done. I loved learning more of this world as the story progressed, and going along with Toby on her journey of finding clues and solving them. Also many questions were raised and not answered, like the reaction of the Queen when she was told of Evening’s death; what happened to Luna and Rayseline while they were held captive, and why Rayseline changed so much. I cannot wait to find out the answers to these questions.   “What’s my prize? And why, my dear October, are you gowned so fetchingly? You don’t need to make yourself beautiful for me, you know; you’ll never win my heart. Although you’re welcome to keep trying, if you insist. Next time? Try wearing a corset.”  Luckily for me some sexiness was added to the story by Tybalt, the king of the Cait Sidhe. And what a deliciously sexy kitty he is ;-) I’m not sure yet whether he’s a friend or foe of Toby, but my romantic heart is hoping friend and possible love interest. What can I say, romance hope springs eternal ;-)  Once again Jessica has proven why she’s a Goddess book-pimp. This book was so very good. I loved it and I cannot wait to continue with this series.  A must read for all who loves UF with an amazing and captivating world and characters. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.