Never thought I'd say this, but I sort of hate this book and it's all because of the main character, October (Toby) Daye. She is just so damn infuriating. But the thing is, not liking the MC has never stopped me from reading a book, continuing a series, or even enjoying the writing. But I just can't do it with this book.Credit where credit is due, this is not nearly as bad as some of the urban fantasies I've read, because there is a lot of potential in the world building and all the mythology woven into the writing is very interesting. However, the book itself is not as well put together as it could have been. It started out okay though, but then half-way through it started to unravel, with each chapter making less sense than the previous. By the end, not much about it made sense to me anymore, least of all the main character herself--the reason for the series, the reason we supposed to care about these books.There are too many things wrong here--pacing's too slow, tone too depressing, main character too apathetic and infuriating. Personally I don't find the fae that interesting; they're pretty obnoxious tbh. However, in spite of that, Seanan McGuire's got a good thing going here, such as the interesting modern-day San Francisco setting, an alternate world filled with otherworldly creatures, and a long-term story arc that's fitting for a long series. I especially like the setting(s), magic, courtly politics, depths and complexity of the world building. I'd like to be optimistic and say maybe this was a fluke. Maybe the next book is better. Maybe I'll pick up it some time in the distant future when I no longer recall why I hated this book, but let's be honest, that's probably not gonna happen because Toby is still the main character and that makes it too difficult for me to care. Also, the first half of this book was too much of an uphill slog and the second half was too weirdly repetitive, especially the action sequences. It felt like the same couple of scenes kept happening over and over again. Toby kept getting almost killed too many times that by the the Nth time, I was like, OK maybe you're better off dead...? She's a professional private detective, yet she is no good at detecting, but I'm gonna cut her some slack here since she did spend a good number of years as a goldfish.Another thing I couldn't get into was the mystery. Didn't care about the victim; didn't care about Toby's connection to her either.Last but not least, this book feels like it's the middle book of an ongoing series, not the first book. It feels like we're being dumped in the middle of on-going cold war between two huge factions with very little background info to work with, and we just have to figure things out as we go along. Too many things crucial to plot and character development are summed up quickly, rather than shown. The relationships between the characters are already well established, and so there's a ton of history that we're not privy to and we just have to accept that. Like I said, infuriating.I can't imagine how the next book is any different, and based on some of my friends' reviews, it's not. And that's why I'm quitting this series.Don't know why I can't seem to get into Seanan McGuire's writing. Feed was meh. Her short stories were also meh. I see so many people on my feed enjoying this series, reading all the way up to book #10, and I just wanna know... how? How do they do it? How did they get through books 2 to 9?A group I'm in on Goodreads is reading Every Heart a Doorway this month, and I'm tempted to join in because I have the book (thanks, TOR!), but I'm dragging my feet because... Seanan McGuire.* * * * *UPDATE: I did end up giving Every Heart a Doorway a try, but it didn't work for me. Review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...* * * * *Cross-posted at https://covers2covers.wordpress.com/2...