Sale Alert 9/30/17: The first book in this series wasn't my favorite but it did grow on me later about book 3 or 4. You can get this for $1.99 on AmazonRead with Buddies Books & Baubles impromptu like because Jessica and Joanita are pushers.See below ↘This is a solid first installment to a series. It is also not what I thought it was going to be. I say this as my book BFF creatively found a way for me to jump into the read of this series with her. I trust her on this because we have pretty similar book tastes but here is the part I wasn’t expecting. Toby is a bit dark, the entire book is a bit dark and I somehow thought eventually it would get a little lighter….but it really doesn’t.Urban Fantasy….well I’m pretty much a fan of it and I’ve read a few different series now in this genre that are clearly UF and not PRN. But I’m just going to say that in my limited experience most UF clearly has a very quippy, snarky side like Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I think of UF and I totally think of some of the more popular series like Kate Daniels, Mercy Thompson, Dresden, and The Iron Druid. While all of them have some serious moments there is a lot of quick wit and quirky humor along the way to cut through some of that. October Daye is a bit rougher and there isn’t a ton of humor to cover up how dark it can get.I see the ratings and can see why some of my friends are torn or gave up before finishing this book. There is quite a bit going on and I think that there are some things that I’d only pick up the second time through when I could drop back and enjoy the language and characters a little more instead of picking up all the story.╰⊰✿ The Good Stuff ✿⊱╮ஐ – The writing is really well done. There are just some great moments where I really just enjoyed the writing. Statements like: “We hated each other so well and loved each other so badly...”And  “He changes when there's a threat to be overcome: it's like he pulls on a second skin, one he almost forgets the rest of the time, and becomes a hero again. A tired, old hero, one who wields a pen instead of a sword and rides waves of paperwork rather than a white charger, but still a hero.” ஐ – Toby, she is the underdog that I want to root for. She is smart and a changling so she doesn’t really fit into the human or the Fae world completely. She has one foot in and another foot out never really belonging anywhere. And after the tragedy in the beginning of her story I really wanted her to find some happiness.ஐ – I like the worldbuilding and characters. I’m not uber familiar with Fae lore so a lot of this was brand new to me and I’m sure as the story continues I’ll pick up more and more. Still we have a really good start and one of my favorite things in this was the Rose Goblins. It is part Cat and Part Rose Bush and completely awesome.“Rose goblins are built like porcupines - if you rub them the right way, you don't have to worry about the spines. They're sort of like people in that regard, too.”ஐ – The build up. If you are hoping for some quick and fast answers…then well this is probably not the book for you. There is definitely a plot for this book but the overall questions I have about Toby were barely glimpsed. Hopefully we get there but I’m not expecting any easy answers.╰⊰✿ The Stuff that was a Minor Issue for Me ✿⊱╮Remember when I said that I’m not super familiar with Fae lore??? It was like a few sentences ago so I really hope so. Well there are a lot of things tapped on and mentioned that I don’t know much about. The different courts, the different Fae types and some of the general stories in the Lore to be specific. Now that is fine I’m sure I will learn all about them but I will say it is like the author expected you to have a working knowledge of the Fae going into this book and I felt like I didn’t do my homework.The story is still very enjoyable for the most part but I did get a little bit stuck on a few minor details because of that. The other part is the Fae mentality. It is really a shift, they are really pretty cruel for the most part and I struggled with some of the motivations. I was finally catching on by the end of the book so I have high hopes but some of their responses threw me for a loop. ╰⊰✿ I’m Excited for the entire series because ✿⊱╮“My name is October Christine Daye; I live in a city by the sea where the fog paints the early morning, parking is more precious than gold, and Kelpies wait for the unwary on street corners. Neither of the worlds I live in is quite mine, but no one can take them away from me. I did what had to be done, and I think I may finally be starting to understand what's important. It's all about finding the way home, wherever that is. I plan on finding out.I have time.”