“Toby Daye Investigations, Toby Daye speaking, what is it now, Cliff?” October, Toby is our brash vivacious lili changeling. After hiding away from the fey world, the murder of Winterrose drags her back into the thick of it... NOW lets see if she survives it *Muahha*  Her POV:  I weirdly enjoyed that she on weaker side of fey and not some  mythical punching bag  that always top of the food chain. it was a breathe of air on how she has been FUCKEDD UPPP by the fey and refuses to ever let that happen to her  *or others* again. She ain't stupid-- she knows her weaknesses and fights to overcome them which really showed in her POV as capable but cautious I think the best way to describe this book is  a rough start to a great series  while the book itself does have some issues, looking back I see the hidden details as gems of info  that later play a HUGE part in the series so its very much a ~~trust the process, its only gonna keep getting better from here bb~~And of course she makes some friends on the way, “On the other hand, it’s actually been something of a relief, because it’s something I can count on. Dawn comes, the moon wanes, and Tybalt hates me.”I fucking loved Tybalt, his character as the Kings of Cats just cloaked in mysterious in the shadows while also  a teasing fuckwhad was the PERFECT addition to this story that I can't believe isn't in more fey types I ship the HELLLL outta them together bc ummm he's amazing *duhhh* I love the way he helps her but in the most dickish way possible i.e. some mysterious vague clues. He definitely a reoccurring character who always gonna be in the middle of trouble *ya know how cats be* but the question remains whether he is on Toby's side or against her ... is yet to be seen Secondary character wise, we seemed to get more info about the villainous then any real supporting cast. not even a cliche BFF with all the answers *snorts* But we do get sneak peek of some ?? possible friends ?? from some stray kids she tried to save“So you followed me after I told you not to, and saw us come out of the cliff?”“Yes.”“Manuel?”“Yes?”“That was dumb.”“Yes, ma’am.”I think the best part of the story *besides Tybalt of course* was the general world building in how the fey rules worked in tandem with the human world. the author clearly kept some classic fey rules like NO LYINGG but also intertwined her own unique twists of mystical badasses that even I'm scared shitless of Like all the Fey legends that she must survive ... i mean visit “You have to visit the Luidaeg.” She said it like it was a perfectly reasonable idea. Like hell.”If that hasn't intrigued you into this series then maybe hearing from the heroine herself, introduce her world might help: “My name is October Christine Daye; I live in a city by the sea where the fog paints the early morning, parking is more precious than gold, and Kelpies wait for the unwary on street corners. Neither of the worlds I live in is quite mine, but no one can take them away from me. I did what had to be done, and I think I may finally be starting to understand what's important. It's all about finding the way home, wherever that is. I plan on finding out."