Buddy Read with the MacHalosMaybe Ilona Andrews' Kate Daniels has ruined me for all other UF series, but this was not an awesome book. This was like the Jerry Lewis version of KD. Let's go over the things that annoyed me:1. Tobey has almost no fighting skills and no weapons, yet she romps around getting into trouble. You think she'd take a self defense at the gym or something, because she desperately needs it. I don't care if they're magical beings, stronger than you magic wise, you could still learn a few moves for the ones you could actually hit if you knew how. 2. Speaking of that lack of defensive skills (and offensive), she's always getting hurt, seriously hurt and almost dying. It's really annoying that she spent most of the book that way. 3. That pond time must've resulted in some stunned synapses, because Tobey is not the brightest crayon in the box. It's one of the books where you're constantly thinking "how did she not know this?" It's like everyone knows the rules of Monopoly and she's still trying to decide what game piece she'll be. 4. Info dumping, but unhelpful info. The book is loaded with descriptions of this new world and all the things in it, etc. etc. blah blah blah, but it's not full of the info you'd like to know. The really simple things that'd help understand half of what's going on in the book and this is info I know is only going to be pertinent to this book, yet it's missing. 5. A lot of extra. I ended up skimming in a lot of places. The book went like this....Tobey doesn't want to do anything...but now she's accidentally caught up in some trouble... blah blah blah...super injured and at the mercy of whoever is around... blah blah blah...saved...blah blah blah...blindly staggering into trouble again...blah blah blah. The blah's are the parts I skimmed and kept wondering when it was going to conclude.6. Repetition. Ugh, this book had so much repetition. In case you forget from where you read it three pages ago, she's Amandine's daughter. That was repeated over and over, along with other things I'm trying to block out.7. The end was very Red Baron twirling his mustache. Overall, this book didn't do it for me, especially Tobey. She's not a bad character, she's just kind of this ignorant lump of clay walking around (that seems so much younger than her age, like YA young), and people are clamoring for her attention and skills, skills she seems very inept at using. I'd like this book better if she was good at some of these things, but she's not. She does have a special skill only she seems to do, but I'm not sure, as the book is so vague. The best part of this book to me was the secondary characters, I found them much more intriguing. All the secondary characters have their act together and seem coherent? awake? Tybalt seems like a lovely pirate, Connor, I'm not feeling that wannabe connection, Lily is neat, Julie is psycho, Manual shows promise, Devin, I want to ask if Tobey has brain damage where he's involved, Duke & Duchess seem nice, etc. The secondary characters made this book for me. The last thing that bothered me about this book - it's written in the first person POV, which I find bothersome in this book. I'll most likely be reading book 2, as I wish to know more about the cat man and the rest of the secondary characters. I so want Ryseline to crack....and I want to be best friends with the Luidaeg.