“You are made of dreams and this world is not for you.”
Source Right when I thought my Ronan Lynch obsession had reached its peak, Call Down The Hawk comes out.Please tell me how it's been three full years since The Raven King came out and concluded one of the best series out there? It's unreal. Time is just an illusion.I still remember cracking open the first book, The Raven Boys, waiting to see if I’ll be impressed. I was completely hooked on the first line. And I sped through the series in a few days' time. I lived with these characters for months after. I heard their lines echoed in my thoughts.This new release couldn’t have made me happier. Having my favorite character grow alongside me is a perk granted to few. I don’t take it lightly. Having new iconic Ronan Lynch lines is a perk I don’t take for granted, as well. Having stories about his childhood? In love. Seeing his perspective on ground-breaking scenes in The Raven Cycle? Love. Seeing Declan Lynch break out of his mold? Give me more. G I V E   M E   M O R E.Like my reviews for The Raven Cycle, I have to mention my favorite gems in here. Future me, this is all you need to know before you start on book 2 in this new trilogy:*Spoilers ahead*• The main theme of Ronan's conflicting thoughts on being left behind felt all too real.“He loved the Barns, he was bored of the Barns, he wanted to leave, he wanted to stay.”It's truly heartbreaking to see a gang as tightknit as the gangsey all on their separate paths. From having late-night conversations in the bathroom/kitchen in The Raven Cycle to barely having once a week text contact was breaking me. This is the part of growing up that no one warns you about. So it's no secret then that I didn't take for Adam's new friend group, and I was beyond glad that we didn't have to spend more than one scene with them. They just don't get it like the gangsey does.• Dauntless Declan. I am so utterly impressed with his character development. I always wanted to see more of him and Matthew, and I got just that. The dynamic between the brothers makes my heart shine.“Thank God,” Declan said, retrieving his car keys.“You can if you like,” Matthew said. “But I dressed myself.”He shot a look at Ronan to make sure his joke had been funny.”This is such a younger sibling thing to do that I can't help but smile.• But then my mind always returns to that heartstopping moment when the Lynch brothers didn't know if Matthew was safe. All you want is to know that they're okay so you can breathe in relief. It showcased just how entangled they are.“Ronan didn’t know who he would be without them.”• I highlighted so many Declan quotes because he just gets it. He understands how it feels to numb yourself so as to not feel anything until there's a glimmer of hope for a better life.
“Because the safest shape was being both unknown and unchanging”
The Lynch brothers make me feel alive. They understand my deepest fears and most intimate thoughts. Whenever I have the chance to read their words I know I'll feel a little less alone.• Ronan stepping up to help someone he doesn't even know truly showcases just how much he's grown. He's become his own Gansey. He understands himself now better than ever, and it was refreshing to see him open himself up and be vulnerable to help another dreamer. The moment he revealed the significance of the leather bands on his wrist was another hit.SourceAgain, it's a Declan quote that tells it like it is:
“Declan hated that he loved someone who wasn’t 
real.” 
• Besides, did anyone else perceive Bryde as a healthy Kavinsky? Both of them taught Ronan to take charge of his dreams. One did it a bit more provocatively, but still. I feel like he'll have a big part in Ronan's life. And I'm not sure, what with Declan's proclamation, if it's simply platonic: “Adam wasn’t really enough for him, either, but Declan knew he hadn’t gotten that far yet.”• The saddest part was feeling so good reading this book and taking my time with it but also knowing that with each chapter I enjoyed, it took me closer to the end. It came to an end all too soon. I was both happy and sad reading this.• Also, this is how you write a follow-up book after years. You don't infodrop everything that happened over the course of four books in the first chapter. You sprinkle it in when called for. So I immensely appreciated that little detail of not dropping everything on the reader immediately. (This is something that really bothered me when starting the third book of The Diviners, "Before The Devil Breaks You".) • Oh, and I encountered the perfect song that captures the darkness and subtle movements in this novel:  Tamino - Indigo NightThe first few seconds of the music playing without any words really has it all.What else is there to say but that I need the second book now more than ever. Anticipating this release was less gruesome because I had no idea what was awaiting me. Now I know and I want my daily dose of Ronan Lynch.Check the dreamer out for yourself with my Amazon Affiliate link:

Update upon completing the book: When you take down so many notes during your reading experience that you can’t wait to put to use, but then you reach that wretched last page and you’re left with only one thought: H E L PRonan Lynch chapters:                  Anyone else's chapters:




 

 

 

This review and more can be found on my blog.