2nd Review: February 2022Basically everything I said below, in my original review of this book, holds true upon a re-read. I don't think it's her best work but it's doing a lot of set-up and heavy lifting for this trilogy. I am excited to continue though because there is a lot of potential in this world and I'm excited to see more, especially now that I'm more familiar with the new characters and lore that she's creating in this one.Original Review: January 2020Let me say this first: I love The Raven Cycle. I think the characters, plots, and atmosphere with her writing that Stiefvater crafted in that series is phenomenal and unmatched by many YA (or even non-YA) series out there.I went into this book with basically no knowledge of what it was other than a spin-off of TRC that followed Ronan, presumably after the events of TRC. That's what this book is about, for sure, but it's so much more. And it wants to be so much more than the Raven Cycle, which I think is admirable. Stiefvater definitely diversified her cast of characters in this story which is refreshing, but she also expanded the world a lot. The thing that TRC really thrives on is the close-knit community of characters it cultivates: the ladies of 300 Fox Way, the boys of Monmouth Manufacturing, and the endless permutations of both groups coming together. Call Down the Hawk has many characters, but for a majority of the story they are siloed. We start with the brothers Lynch: we are familiar with Declan, Ronan and Matthew from TRC. I loved these guys, and this installment really made me enjoy Declan's presence a lot more. He came to life more than he did in TRC and I appreciate the time and attention he got immensely. Matthew's story arc is fascinating and excites me for future books. Ronan is Ronan, of course, but in a way compared to all the other characters and because he is so well established from TRC, he didn't shine as much as I expected.Other characters we meet and begin to get to know (this is only book 1 of 3, keep in mind) are Jordan & Hennessy, two lovely additions to this world. Jordan is a curious character who I adore and can't wait to see more of. Carmen Farooq-Lane and Parsifal Bauer were fun but a bit shallow characters. And all the ancillary characters in Carmen's world are really only serving, so far, as plot devices. I hope they get fleshed out more in future installments of the series. A lot of what I think this book suffers from is first book syndrome, which is ironic because it both is and is not the first book in a series. While you don't have to read TRC before reading this, it would be a bit disorienting and lackluster to skip right to this book. You'd get minor spoilers that probably wouldn't mean much to you, but you would get along fine. However, because it is the first book in a new series that relies so much on the lore and world of the first, I had a hard time getting settled in the fact that this was solely Ronan's story of the original TRC characters. I missed Blue and Gansey, and though Adam makes appearances, he's definitely not a major focus. The chemistry we got from the Raven Boys & Blue does not exist here. That's not to fault the fact that this is meant to be something new, but I didn't feel that Ronan, in this book, did enough to really make up for the loss of the others. That being said, I will definitely continue this series. In the final 100 pages or so I saw glimmers of something much larger and exciting that I believe will be explored and expanded on in the next two books. Plus Stiefvater's writing is always delicious, and not many authors can get me to write such a long review. There's lots to think about, and I might enjoy this more upon a re-read (or listen since Will Patton also reads this one on audio!).