2.5Within the first few chapters, I was prepared to love this book. Lady Trent reminded me a bit of Alexia Tarbotti and Amelia Peabody - those anachronistic women of modern pseudo-Victorian tales I enjoy. (Though this world is even more pseudo than the others as it's set either in a different world entirely, or, perhaps, in the far future - but the society and even writing style, complete with multiple chapter sub-titles, remains the same.)Anyway - The voice of Lady Trent, the older lady writing her memoirs, is a strong one, and I enjoyed the foray into her early, wild years and her relationships with the people around her, including her parents (from which one of the more memorable lines of the book comes (and is referenced in my status update)), her developing passion for all things dragon, and into her growing up and the "grey years" in which she tried to be "a lady".And I had thought, both when I picked up the book and continuing through these chapters, that this book was going to cover the entirety of Lady Trent's life, and if it had continued at the pace and voice that these early chapters had, I think I would have loved the story.Alas, it was not to be.The bulk of the story actually focuses on Isabella Camherst's first proper expedition into studying dragons, and a mystery which comes to the fore. And, unfortunately, much of this 'adventure' was kind of boring - from the overly detailed descriptions of the expedition, to the lackluster mystery. I barely felt any sense of real suspense of urgency, or even any real depth from the characters.Mrs. Camherst is more a woman of science than passion, which is grand, but that doesn't mean that the description of emotional bits of the story need be so, well, matter-of-fact. I've read many stories which deal with women of intellect and strength which still manage to portray actual people and emotions. Aside from the two mentioned above, I'll add the Mary Russell series to the lot, and I'm sure there are more. Also, the (I believe) 19 year-old Isabella is just too naive and, well, kind of annoying. This isn't really mitigated by the fact that the memoirist's voice often comments on how she would've, at times, like to smack her younger self. Honestly, between the elder voice and the child's voice, I had a really hard time reconciling this middle-aged voice as belonging to the same person, at times. I mean, it would be one thing to say it was a product of youth, but even her younger self seemed more capabale.But I digress - Ultimately, I just think the adventure was overly belabored and it didn't have much of a pay-off. I think it would've worked much better if it was a shorter vignette of a larger story - but it seems that the "memoir" of Lady Trent is intended to really be a series, each book devoted to a particular episode.Frankly, there's just not enough meat to the story to deserve such treatment. Not to say it was all bad. As I said, I was prepared to love it in the first few chapters, and there were moments, even in the later chapters, that were interesting. I did like the idea of focusing on dragons as natural creatures for study and such - even if I didn't always agree with some of the methodology employed. Anyway -The real question - to continue, or not to continue? I honestly don't know. I like the idea of the story, and it's not like the writing is bad, really. It's biggest issues seem to be owed to taking a thin story and trying to stretch it, creating horrible pacing issues - but this could be fixed in the next story.But, then, I'm not really all that attached to the characters, so it's not like I have any pressing need to know more.I guess time will tell...