3.24180327 stars (pretty close to pi)- the average of tales of 89 to 210 as I lost the ratings of the first 88 stories 2016 - The Most Fun (nest) Review to Write " The folk tale is the primer of the picture-language of the soul" -Joseph CampbellIf the Grimms were around today this is the tale I would recount to them:In the near past in the kingdom of Toronto there lived a distinguished middle aged Duke. He was handsome, cool, level-headed and fastiduous. He lived in a grand apartment with his gray kitty but after two unhappy marriages was looking to reconnect with another nobleperson and attempt happiness once again. He decided to host a dinner and had three countesses scour the city for suitable candidates. These three countesses were lovely to Duke Xavier and wanted the best for him despite not being able to nab him for themselves. The third countess was especially sweet and asked the Duke if he would consider somebody more pedestrian but pleasant, devoted and a bit odd.Xavier looked at her sweetly and said "Why the hell not?"The dinner day arrived and the four suitors awaited in the lobby. First there was Sir Adonis. Sculpted like a greek god, with a face so handsome that both men and women fainted just by looking. Second there was Lady Haha. Fashionable, brilliant and cooler than her more famous relative Lady G...no we cannot say it. Thirdly there was Dame Cait....sophisticated, intelligent and a tigress in bed (by reputation really.) Lastly there was roly poly Jade. Not a prince or nobility and looked rather bashful in his maroon smoking jacket that his aunty picked out for him for this occasion.The three countesses came down to the lobby of the apartment and saw Lady Haha with her little poodle that had shat three times already on the marble. "Lady Haha...you cannot bring that beast into the sumptuous rooms. The Duke's gorgeous feline will have an epileptic fit" Well if Lady Poodle Rara is not welcome then I am off to find a king that will appreciate me" Off she huffed. Sir Adonis smirked. Dame Cait grimaced. Roly poly Jade quickly applied some lip balm and quickly smelled his armpits as he was oh so nervous.The countesses brought the three to the apartment and seated there in grey and mauve elegance was Duke Xavier. He greeted all warmly and then dismissed the three countesses to the kitchen to finish dinner.The Duke said "the first test is the talent show."Sir Adonis jumped up. He ripped open his shirt and started to pose. His biceps and triceps were oh so delicious and the three countesses were mesmerized at the sight. Duke Xavier snapped and said "Away ladies do not burn our dinner". Dame Cait said "Well I'm feeling rather moist now" Jade looked down at his roly poly stature and lost all courage.Dame Cait pulled out a long cigarette holder, lighted it. She then began to recite Virginia Woolf, Dante, Neruda, Aristotle, Rumi and even Anne Rice by rote memory. She did it with such class and with a british accent that was divine to listen to. Sir Adonis yawned. The three countesses were charmed and Jade headed for the door.Duke Xavier gently said. "Please do not go. Please share your talent" Jade looked up and said. "Duke Xavier do you happen to have a karaoke machine" The three countesses were prepared and slid one out on a very chic dolly.This is what roly poly Jade sang:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdvZa...Sir Adonis yawned. Dame Cait grimaced. The three countesses melted. Duke Xavier got a glimmer in his beautiful sad brown eyes.Dinner was served. Sir Adonis took the choicest pieces of meat. Dame Cait criticized every dish. Roly poly Jade got gravy on his maroon smoking jacket and died of embarassment.Duke Xavier asked the last question of the evening and it was this: "How will you love me?"Sir Adonis answered the question with the question: "No Duke -how will you love me?"Dame Cait answered thoughtfully: "I will organize the nicest soirees, connect you to the most beautiful and intelligent people and spend your money in a thoughtful way so that I always look chic, desirable and you will be the envy of every nobleperson in the entire kingdom"Roly poly Jade uttered quickly: "I am not sure I can love you just like that. I will get to know you, comfort you and make sure that most of the time you are happy. If I do fall in love with you Duke Xavier I will remain devoted to you for the rest of your days. I will eat all your baked goods with relish, I will procrastinate on all the household chores, I will sing endlessly to you especially show tunes and songs from the 1980s. I will always have your best wishes at heart and take care of you and make you laugh. I am not beautiful. I am only semi-smart but my heart will always be open to you forever"The three countesses had tears in their eyes.Duke Xavier stood up and gave Sir Adonis a warm hug. He sweetly kissed Dame Cait on the lips.He held out his hand to roly poly Jade and said "Come on pumpkin, let's Rock"THE END.