Already Want to Read This Again……Wow! That was amazing! Yes, yes. I’ve already seen the movie, but the book is so much better.In The Hunger Games, Katniss Everdeen is scraping by, just trying to make her daily living, hunting by her bow in the forest to feed her family. Every year, The Capitol requires every district to offer up one boy and one girl as tributes. The tributes fight each other to the death until only one person survives. This fight is called The Hunger Games.The day of the Reaping finally comes. This is the day where the one boy and one girl are selected. Unfortunately, Prim, Katniss’s younger sister is selected. In an incredible act of bravery, Katniss volunteers to take her sister’s place. Will Katniss make it through The Hunger Games?First of all, the narrator on this was perfect. She even did the accent for the Capitol people, and she sang the song. Second, The Hunger Games is a perfect dystopian novel. It has different dresses and customs, but it isn’t overkill or confusing. There are also many parallels to today’s society. For example, why do the citizens allow The Hunger Games? Because they don’t believe that their children will be selected. How many people believe that they will never be unemployed, never get divorced, never become seriously ill or injured? People like betting on themselves. But we, as a society, aren’t we better off if we made sure that there were strong safety nets in place for those who happen on hard times? In The Hunger Games, all is also not equal. The tributes can have sponsors who rain down much needed supplies on the tributes. We like to think that everyone has an equal opportunity. But is that really the case when the rich can purchase private ACT/SAT tutors for their children? What about those who start their first job and have strong allies and mentors from day one? But I also loved this book, because it had many small acts of kindness.“Kind people have a way of working their way inside me and rooting there.” – The Hunger GamesWith cruelty becoming commonplace, kindness stands out. When District 11 came together, I racked my brain trying to remember the last time that we, as a society, came together for a cause, and I came up short. I think the world is hungry for a rallying cry, a cause that we can all fight together for. What would the world be like if the cruelty was replaced by kindness? Full disclosure: may have cried just a little bit reading this.Looking forward to the next book in the series….-	The Girl On FireConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta