Diane Duane’s Young Wizards series is an old favorite. I’m pretty sure this is my third time rereading it, and I enjoy it just as much - if not more - each time.So You Want to Be a Wizard defies age categorization. The protagonist, Nita, is thirteen, and from the outside, everything about the book seems to fit neatly into the middle grade category. But once you start reading, you run into some language and concepts that, when I first read this book as a preteen, went over my head. I would compare it to Madeleine L’Engle’s books in that respect. The end result is a series I’ve been able to enjoy at every stage of life.In So You Want to Be a Wizard, Duane introduces a complex magic system and a multifaceted world that unfolds gradually with each book. She blends fantasy and science fiction in a way that’s destined to appeal to fans of both genres, like myself. My younger self was drawn in by the relatable characters and with every subsequent reread I’ve developed a stronger grasp of subject matter that previously escaped me. There’s nothing quite like a book you can revisit again and again and still gain something from each time.Speaking of relatable characters, I have to gush about the protagonist, Nita Callahan. Nita is a bookish young teen, bullied by her peers for her smart mouth and nerdy inclinations. I had a lot in common with Nita the first time I read this book and I think that’s why she’s still, to this day, one of my favorite characters. Her fellow young wizard, Kit Rodriguez, is equally likable, and each side character comes to life with a unique personality.The only flaw in this book – and it’s not even enough of a flaw for me to take a star off my rating – is that Duane has a tendency to wax philosophical, and it can get a bit much. In small doses, it adds to the grandiosity of the story, but when laid on too thick, it’s distracting and overwrought. There are only a few places in So You Want to Be a Wizard where this happens, though, so I’m able to overlook it.I would describe this book as charming and eccentric, yet simultaneously dark and deep. I’ve never read anything else like it. I’m looking forward to rereading book two. This series is definitely a comfort series for me, one I reread again and again because it brings me so much joy.