I really enjoyed this character-driven urban fantasy steeped in Korean folklore. Plot: ★★★★★Pacing: ★★★ 1/2Concepts/Lore: ★★★★★It's been quite a long time since I've read a YA fantasy like Wicked Fox. It's like the mid-2010s fantasy genre where the beings were magical, but they still went to school and experienced everyday modern life. I'm a sucker for that urban fantasy feel, and hope that this is the start of a comeback for that kind of thing (i.e. Melissa Marr's Wicked Lovely books, which I ADORE.)Miyoung lives with her mother in Seoul, Korea. They live alone, they have no friends. Stunningly beautiful, they seem to exist in their own world of perfection. But that's only the top layer—it turns out that they're gumiho, or nine-tailed foxes. These mystical Korean folklore symbols eat the livers of men to stay alive for eternity. Then there's Jihoon, the teenage boy who lives with his halmeoni, or grandma, in their restaurant. His mother abandoned him when he was young and now lives across town with her "new" family, and he's struggling to achieve contentment with his life while preparing for the next year of high school. His heart isn't open to new people, and he's okay with that. One night, Miyoung's hunt for her next victim is witnessed by Jihoon. When a rogue demon attacks Miyoung mid-feed, Jihoon comes to her aid. There's a fight, a struggle, and now Miyoung's soul is externalized via a soul bead—which is dangerous for gumiho, because whoever controls the bead controls the gumiho. Fearing Jihoon's presence, Miyoung runs away. The next day, Miyoung is the new girl at Jihoon's school. Things will never be the same. Things I loved: I loved that even though this was a romance-driven plot, the interactions with Miyoung and Jihoon focused on more than their feelings. I also thought the author did a devastatingly good job at writing complex and morally grey mother figures—both Miyoung's mom and Jihoon's are extremely well fleshed out, and it's rare to see negative mother roles in this context. (Ahem, also, the father figure representation was really well done and interesting.) Also, let's talk about the Korean references! This was grounded in Korean culture, particularly soaps, and it was awesome. I didn't know much about Korea at all, but after this introduction I'm excited to learn more. It felt natural, it wasn't info-dumpy, and the author obviously cares a lot for representing Korean slice of life. (With a bit of fantasy angst mixed in, which just adds to the perfection.)Things I didn't love: I did think this novel was oddly paced. The first half is very slice of life—each chapter picks up either hours later, same time, or next day—but then once we hit a certain climactic moment, the pacing abruptly shifts to a different structure. Weeks pass by at the chapter break, maybe even months (who knows?), and so it felt like there was a "slow" part (the beginning), and a "fast" part (the end), and that was odd. I still enjoyed it, but it did throw me for a loop initially.Also, I read most of this novel without realizing it was going to continue with another book. I was so sad, as this concept had room to grow. Thrilled to see we're getting another! Can't wait.Blog | Instagram | Libro.fm Audiobooks