'Switched’ by Amanda Hocking caught my eye due to its high position on Amazon Kindle’s bestsellers and it’s awesome price of 99 cents. Without knowing a thing about the book other than the brief synopsis I read before I downloaded the story, and the overwhelming number of positive reviews, I figured it would be an awesome quick read.‘Switched’ is about Wendy Everly, a girl who lives with her aunt and brother in an attempt to control the chaos of her life. Her mother, Kim, tried to kill her on her 6th birthday, and since then her life has been a downward spiral of changing homes and failed friendships. Within this backdrop we discover that Wendy has some peculiar abilities, and is given an opportunity by a mysterious boy, Finn, to move once again to a new place where she can finally fit in. However, if she decides to make the move she will have to leave behind her brother and aunt, the only two people who have ever cared about her.I’ve only revealed the first 20 pages or so and it sounds like a decent story line right? However, once the story begins to progress you discover that it doesn’t go anywhere. The plot never advances, the characters are underdeveloped, the conversation is so far away from colloquial it seems as if the ‘speaker’ is rummaging through a thesaurus before deciding on each word choice, and the romantic elements in the story make you cringe with the overwhelming amount of cheesiness. I suppose if you’re into the new ‘supernatural teen romance’ genre that is emerging, this book could be for you. But for anyone that is not familiar with this genre, stay clear of this book. Wendy experiences ’0′ change throughout the book and the story ends literally and figuratively exactly where it began.I was astonished to see how many positive reviews this book received, and I understand that Hocking is not attempting to write a literary masterpiece that is applauded by college English professors, but to me, the story was barely enjoyable. My 99 cents would have been better spent on the ‘Fruit Ninja” app for my iPhone.On a bookshelf with 5 shelves… shelf 5 being the highest and best, it doesn’t even make it to the shelf.