I read this after reading The Kanin Chronicles so I knew couple of things beforehand like the world of Trolls isn't exactly what one would expect and also who Wendy ends up with and where. Although this world of Trolls doesn't bother me anymore as I accepted that in The Kanin Chronicles. I know after the disappointing Kanin Chronicles, I shouldn't have gotten into this but when I got to know that this series is from a princess's pov I thought I'd give it a try and I won't lie that this disappointed way more than The Kanin Chronicles.Wendy Everly finds out before her 18th birthday that she's not part of the human world and is a Troll lineage Trylle. She's whiny extremely whiny. Her brother, human brother Matt loves her like anything and always takes care of her along with their aunt. Finn, who's a tracker comes to retrieve Wendy and tells her who she is and what she's meant to be. They fall for each other. I liked Finn's character.Matt, who's Wendy's human brother is a sweetheart. He takes care of Wendy and loves her. Matt's mother is in an asylum after she attempts to murder Wendy on her sixth birthday when she suspected that Wendy was a changeling and not her daughter. Also, Kim knew that she'd given birth to a boy and not a girl. Besides Matt and Finn I didn't like much in the book. It's just some action, lot of drama, some heartbreak and lots and lots of moping. Also, my heart went out to Kim Everly. How she was robbed of all those years in that asylum knowing that she was right and still she was made the bad guy. I'm not saying attempting murder on a six year old is okay but she had her reasons. Yet I felt her punishment was way excessive. This business of changeling and abandoning human children to orphanage is absolutely cruel as I mentioned in my Frostfire's review. In this case the human child, Rhys, was brought to the Trylle world and treated very coldly by Wendy's biological mother. How can she expect someone else to treat her child better when she treated Rhys like that. If not for Matt, Finn and Rhys I wouldn't have picked up the next book in the series. 1 star