Originally read: 6/21/2012Reread: 2/19/2016 full review to come....Alright, I don't know if I'm just super generous with my stars or if these are really good books. I loved this book I couldn't put it down! Something new and of course cheesy romance but clean. Well you hear all the time about changeling stories but about the human that is taken not the other way around! This time it's actually about the changeling itself, which was nice and was brought back to the world that they are actually from. It was a new story for me! I liked it a lot! I really like Wendy the main character. Her narration is really strong and I could just picture her so clearly. She's a genuinely nice, level headed person despite the fact that her mother tried to kill her when she was six and everybody keeps their distance from her. The storyline with her mother was so creepy and fascinating! Finn (another character you'll love) tells Wendy she is a changling and everything goes nuts after that! It was obviously a shock for Wendy and the reader to find out that her mother wasn't crazy at all- she was telling the truth when she said Wendy had been switched at birth. But it's creepy for a "motherly figure" in ANY book to try to kill a character which makes it creepy.So this Finn character is supposed to be her guide in the matter of her being switched and has come to "collect" Wendy and bring her back. However, it did seem that she missed out on many of the undercurrents of silent communication that ran from Trylle to Trylle, and definitely that of Elora, the queen. This could be attributed to her recent arrival, and her more important place in the Trylle hierarchy, especially since Wendy is not part of the Fey but is in fact a Troll! Now these trolls are elegant and beautiful and have awesome powers. Finn explains that he’s a tracker, someone who goes out into the world and brings back the changlings; changlings in these books are the troll children who are switched out for other children. Intrigued? good! It was overall a fun cute book! so check it out! tell me what you think!  I can't wait to start the next book!Language: Moderate (1 F-bomb and a few other choice words)Sexual Content: MildDrugs/Alcohol: MildViolence: MildOverall: I would recommend it!