Let me describe this book poorly: woman gets new boyfriend, old boyfriend is jealous, woman is jealous of new boyfriend’s female acquaintance because he goes to her for his fix, but woman doesn’t want to help him, she just gets mad at the other woman. Oh and turns out new boyfriend was interested in woman because she reminds him of his ex. Oh and there’s vampires and witches and magic and stuff. Look, this book is damn entertaining, and I think it’ll hit its mark with most of its audience, but I was frustrated that so much of the plot is devoted to other woman/other man drama. I was wavering on what to rate it and had initially gone with 4 stars, but after more thought I am going with 3 stars because what I see in this book is some of the same mistakes I felt Scarlett St. Clair has made with her Hades X Persephone series. Far too much of her writing is spent on relationship drama and it hangs over the rest of the story like a dark storm cloud.In fact, I get tired of seeing characters like Isolde labeled “strong female characters” when they devote so much of their time to woman vs. woman drama. Isolde is jealous, she’s petty, and rather than help a specific character and realize she’s a product of the station she holds, she belittles and embarrasses them. Isolde is a victim of patriarchal womanhood and it frustrates me that plots like this are still being written—we’re well past the days of stories like this. It isn’t 2006 any longer. I can’t recall once in this book that I felt Isolde treated another woman as an equal, that’s not to say she doesn’t have female friends, but the women in this book are either threats to her or subordinates. This book would have really hit the mark for me if that part of the plot had been cut, or simply rewritten to show Isolde being altruistic and understanding, despite the petty drama around her.On top of that, the first half of this book devotes quite a bit of time to traveling. I am one of the few individuals that actually really loves traveling plots, but it just didn’t feel realistic or necessary in this book. A lot of it felt convenient so things could be set up (which is totally fine!), but by the end of the book, I felt as though not much happened once they arrived at the Red Palace. I was just expecting quite a bit more, and would have recommended cutting a lot of the traveling back, or simply writing more after their arrival, to balance with the traveling, so the pacing doesn’t feel so disjointed. The characters in this are fine overall, but Adrian especially reads as Hades v2.0. The story overall is very much similar in themes to the Hades & Persephone myth, which reads as repetitive, if you’ve read Scarlett’s other series. I think one way this could be improved is if the witches part of the plot were introduced earlier on (I loved that spin!), but right now it feels late in the game. It’s one thing to stick with the same themes throughout it a series/world, but this is a new series and read as recycled. On another note, I am disappointed by the sex scenes in this book. I know a lot of people rave about them in Scarlett’s work, but since reading A Touch of Ruin and now this book, I just can’t help but be reminded that quantity does not equal quality. The sex scenes are repetitive (pull tab, insert in hole, repeat), and I noticed that once again, several serious conversations are happening while the characters are having sex. Look, I will be the first to admit that I am 80% here for the spice, and it doesn’t take much to entertain me—but I just scratch my head at characters who can’t talk to each other unless their clothes are off. Again, I imagine this book is absolutely going to hit its mark amongst the audience it’s intended for, and I *was* absolutely entertained. But personally, the woman vs. woman subplots were frustrating and degraded the women in this book. If you love this book, I am happy for you! I wish Scarlett all success with this release and future books. I think I’ll definitely be continuing the series (I even have a couple exclusive editions coming that I am excited for!), it just missed its mark for me in too many areas. Original, April 2021:I am looking forward to this book and love the cover, but it’s difficult not to see how similar it is to another popular fantasy series with vampires. 😬🧐