3 ⭐️ If Bram Stoker's Dracula and JLA's A Shadow In The Ember had a baby…this would be it "All the stars in the sky are not as bright as my love for you.Summary:To end a years-long war, Princess Isolde of Lara is willing to do whatever it takes, even if that means marrying her enemy, the ruthless vampire king, Adrian Aleksandr Vasiliev, and kill him.⁠⁠Upon meeting this monster, instead of feeling horror Isolde is inexplicably drawn towards Adrian. However, even their undeniable chemistry won't deter Isolde from her mission. ⁠⁠But during their journey back to Adrian's land, Isolde learns that there is a man behind the monster and the truth about the world she lives in has been twisted by magic and lies. ⁠My Thoughts:If you like enemies to lovers, the arranged marriage trope, insta-sexual attraction, a feisty dagger-wielding female MC, and vampires/witches/gods, then you’ll probably enjoy this book. I am a sucker for all these things, so the story hooked me from the start. However, there were a few things that hindered my overall enjoyment. The writing was a bit choppy, there wasn’t a lot of character development, and there were a few issues with plot continuity. In all honesty, I felt like I was reading a vampire story posted on Wattpad. It's readable and entertaining, but not exactly what I'd call 'fine literature'.The story is predictable. I literally called every single ‘shocking’ revelation and plot twists because the foreshadowing is so obvious. This was frustrating because who doesn’t love that moment in a story when all the pieces come together and things finally make sense. But in this book, these plot twists are alluded to so frequently that when they finally happen, you’re not surprised. It was also really frustrating knowing what was going on before the main characters and watching them fumble around the truth. There were a lot of elements to this story that just didn't make sense or required more explanation. Here are a few major ones: *SPOILERS AHEAD*-How is Commander Killian able to talk so boldly to Isolde and her father, the king, and get away with it? There's no way any royal would allow this because at the end of the day his opinion on their personal life doesn't matter. -Adrian says he spent a long time searching for Isolde/Yesenia, which means he knew eventually they would be reunited. So if that's the case, and he has spent the last two hundred years exacting his vengeance because of his love for Yesenia, why was he banging other people? Sure, I get that vampires are incredibly sexual, but I feel like he would have been more of a recluse and bitter while he waited, instead of screwing half the kingdom. Idk. -Why did Adrian still have Safira hanging around him after Isolde told him not to feed from her? I don't understand Adrian and Safira's past relationship and it's never quite established. -Why does Isolde drinking Adrian's blood mean their lifelines are tied together? It's a curse but tell me more about it. -I still don't understand the reincarnation stuff. When did he make this bargain with the goddess Dis? I need to know more.-There's no way Isolde's father would try to kill her. He legit was going to go to war so she didn't have to marry Adrian. Also, wouldn’t he trust his daughter and talk with her about why she hasn’t tried killing Adrian? Isolde was supposed to be queen of Lara, so I feel like her father would respect her enough to have a conversation about all this. Not just make a rash decision to kill her bc it would lead to Adrian’s death as well. -Why the fuck would Yesenia write The Book of Dis? Seems like an incredibly stupid thing to do, especially since she's a seer and could foresee what would happen. I may have given this an average rating, but overall, it was an entertaining, quick read. And regardless of the book's flaws, I’m invested enough to continue on with the next in the series.A special thank you to NetGalley and Bloom Books for this eARC in exchange for an honest review. As always, all opinions are my own.