I take back everything I've ever said about the following:- the darkness of my soul- the cynicism I feel about every aspect of waking life- my black heart, my pessimistic core, my status as an eternal hater, etc.I'm rebranding to a lover now. Someone who consumes content without criticism and likes everything. A person who five stars every book and thinks every movie is the best one. This book changed me.I adore The Raven Cycle to an extent that is almost disturbing. I love the dialogue and the figurative and the descriptive. I love the boarding school and the pizza shop and the psychics' house and the mountains and the magic forest and the general store and the D.C. mansion and the renovated factory. I love the protagonist and the love interest and the family members and the ghost and the distant background characters and the villains. There are two things I DON'T love. And those two things happen to be the only characters who make the transition into this book.And yet.I loved them here.This is just as good as any book in The Raven Cycle. Except maybe Blue Lily, Lily Blue.Nothing is coming for that book's title.(Pun intended.)Bottom line: Now everything is good to me!---------------pre-reviewalways a pleasant surprise when something goes better than you expect.at least, i assume so. it doesn't happen that often.review to come / 4.5ish---------------tbr reviewyes i DID truly love the last two books in this series...yes this spinoff IS about my two least favorite characters...no i do NOT know how i'll feel about it---------------oh girl.......THIS is our cover?................oh girl---------------reading all books with LGBTQ+ rep for pride this month!book 1: the gravity of usbook 2: the great american whateverbook 3: wild beautybook 4: the affair of the mysterious letterbook 5: how we fight for our livesbook 6: blue lily, lily bluebook 7: the times i knew i was gaybook 8: conventionally yoursbook 9: the hollow insidebook 10: nimonabook 11: dark and deepest redbook 12: the house in the cerulean seabook 13: the raven kingbook 14: violet ghostsbook 15: as far as you'll take mebook 16: bad feministbook 17: a song for a new daybook 18: one last stopbook 19: to break a covenantbook 20: honey girlbook 21: check, please!book 22: the subtweetbook 23: if we were villainsbook 24: everything leads to youbook 25: you have a matchbook 26: ziggy, stardust, and mebook 27: all the invisible thingsbook 28: heartstopperbook 29: boyfriend materialbook 30: extraordinary birdsbook 31: every body shinesbook 32: you know me wellbook 33: difficult womenbook 34: call down the hawk