I never read something so beautiful, magical, creative, original, depicted all those vivid dreams adroitly and meticulously! You may visualize everything written in the words with the help of them you may use entire five senses to open your heart to those unimaginably fantastic dream sequences! This is creating a remarkable portrait with the power of vocabulary instead of using paint and brushes. This is creating a memorable song with the talented mind without using any notes and instruments.  I’m in love this book! I had amazing time and this is one of the special books you may read at least thousand times and you can still find a different detail you didn’t notice before or get a different taste you weren’t experienced at your previous readings. I don’t want to give any spoilers because any words mistakenly pop out from my non-stop talking mouth may ruin the surprises and your enjoyment. So I duct taped my mouth (actually I didn’t, because I cannot read with my happy hour refreshments!) let’s stay hypnotically I closed my mouth so you need to READ! READ! And READ!But I have to mention something that I really admired about this book:I don’t like any written stories full with over imposing, over sexual that authors use their own character subjectively to prove their points and forgetting all the emotions, realism of back stories. But of course at this book, everything is proportionally told and if you are already fans of Raven Cycle series, it is impossible not to fall in with Adam and Ronan ( catch out the references: did you notice Adam’s name on Ronan’s phone: Yess: freaking ma-na-ge-ment!!!!) and your love is already formed for them (I can dedicate my karaoke competition song that made me the winner for those characters. Yes I drank too many shots and I massacred Taylor Swift’s “Lover” but those words meant for those beautiful characters!!!) Nothing over reacted or unrealistic about their character developments which make you easily bond with them and read their adventures excitedly. If I didn’t have close to Mount Everest height tbr pile, I could start to reread this book only one week later but I’m so sure I’ll do that before the second book comes out!So we have an amazing, exciting, fresh, unique story, lots of extra ordinary dream sequences and adorable characters! This is the quiet efficient formula of a masterpiece! So what are you waiting for? Just jump in and then send me thank you notes for my recommendation.