*A book I read for #SPFBO as a judge and which I quickly fell for as a fan***Trigger warning: Rape, Abuses of various kinds, Violence, extreme War.**Onto the full review:This is a story set in an icy landscape on a mountainside. The book draws heavily on Asian culture and there are many parallels with Japanese training and family structures, and this is something I think has been done very well. For a frozen mountain at the end of the Empire this spit of land is home to some of the most prolific and highly-qualified fighters out there, including the Matsudas...We follow two main characters in this book, Mamoru and Misaki. Mamoru is Misaki's son, and he is the first-born Matsuda of the new generation. He is brilliant from birth, and there are heavy expectations placed on him by his family to master thier family skill, The Whispering Blade, and exceed all expectations. He is young when we meet him, still in school and learning fast, but he is also creative and clever. He's been fairly sheltered by the location he has grown up in, but he values his friends and family highly and his honour too.Misaki is a woman who holds a lot of regret when we meet her. Her story is sad as she was once a great hero and now she is reduced to living with a man she's not sure she can love and loathing the life she has. She's not sure how she managed to let things get as bad as they are, but she knows she needs a shakeup and when her some Mamoru finally asks for her help she sees an opening to soften herself to him.What I love about these two characters is that the author is not afraid to put them out there in all kinds of ways. There are emotional and heartfelt moments and also many moments of sheer brilliance. It's not even just these characters who shine from the page, it's all of the characters within the book. They all have a life and a sense of reality to them which makes them feel genuine when you read.The fighting in this book was insanely good. I hate fight scenes usually but when they are fighting with magical blood powers and ice swords it makes things way cooler. I also think ML Wang has a very good way with words when it comes to fight scenes and the way that she portrayed the characters when fighting allowed me a visual image I do not usually get.The magic of this world comes from the family houses and their inherited powers. Some families are highly regarded in the society as historically they have defended the Empire from its enemies and they also have a strong power. There's a lot of different types of magic in this world but the two we become most familiar with are the Matsuda ice and the blood magic of Misaki. These two powers were cool enough on their own, but there are others which are hinted at and discussed such as heat magic and more. The break-up of this world is interesting as there is an old-world feeling to this area where the Sword of Kaigen sits and the people we follow live, but there is new technology and travel between areas. We follow an exchange student who joins and bring with him info-towers and news of the outside world which is most unwelcome to those that live on the frozen peninsula and mountain. This divide is a key part of the plot and it's almost self-inflicted at times, but it's fascinating to learn more about.There is a very interesting economic scene within the book which I feel is worth mentioning as it's something you do not often see in detail, rebuilding. This moment touched me as it was something more than just a dramatic scene in a book, it was based on reality that people face when they have a tragedy. There is much trauma within the story, but there are also practical and realistic solutions alongside the magic and I appreciated this. Finally, I think that this book has it all. Great characters, amazing fight scenes and loads of action, heartfelt moments, awesome magic and mayhem, and culture that is inspired by some of my favourite parts of the world. A brilliant book which is so SO worth a read and I have to say I recommend it very very highly. I wish there was more, and I will certainly have to read the series this one is a prequel for. 4.75*s which is 9.5/10 for #SPFBO.