"There are a million ways to tell the same story. Our job as jaseliwu is to find the one the listener needs to hear. Not necessarily the one that makes them the happiest or the one that gives them the most information, but the one they need to hear to do what they need to do."

M.L. Wang’s The Sword of Kaigen is nothing short of remarkable. An instant classic that is both heart breaking and heart-warming in almost equal measure. I cried, I laughed, and I was awed by the emotion this book was able to bring out in me. M.L.’s ability to reach into the soul of this story and bring it forth is an amazing feat of literary genius. I’ve read several books this year that I have rated 5 stars, but this is my favorite of them all. I feel it may be sometime before I connect with a book the way I did with this one. Takayubi is a small mountain village in The Kaigenese Empire, and also happens to be the home of one of the most powerful theonite families in the world, the Matsuda’s. The two main characters Mitsuki and Mamoru are part of the Matsuda family. Mitsuki married into the Matsuda family by an arranged marriage orchestrated by her father. Mamoru is Mitsuki and her husband Takeru’s first born son. The majority of the story is played out from these two characters point of view. Mitsuki is still living in the past after all these years. She struggles with her station as a house wife and can’t get over how different her life would be if she would’ve been allowed to make her own decisions. Mamoru is a 14 year old teenager trying to live up to his family’s powerful name and magical history. But when a foreign student joins his class, he is forced to question everything he has been taught to believe. The Sword of Kaigen is a Japanese-military inspired novel that shows the effects war can have on a person, a family, and a community. I know war is horrible and I don’t condone it in any way, but M.L. Wang shows a different side of war besides just the unneeded slaughter that comes with it. She did manage to break my heart though. More so, than I can remember any book ever doing. It really was a roller coaster of emotions, but it wasn’t the quick highs and lows you get in a lot of books. Some sections of the story are a slow burn that really let the feelings of what just happened linger for a while. You’re not thrown from once scene to the next, so those emotions really have time to sink in. I am usually one for a fast paced book, but I think the pacing in this book was masterfully done. It just wouldn’t have had the same effect without it. Of course, any great fantasy book is going to have a magic system. The magic system in The Sword of Kaigen is one of the better ones I’ve had the pleasure to read in some time. It is very well thought out and described in detail. If I had to label it, I would say it is has a basis to elemental magic. But there are also sub-genres to it as well which makes it unique in its own way. It also really enhances the battle scenes. Here is another area I have to give M.L. Wang props. She knows how to write close quarter battle scenes. These were described in great detail and she didn’t hold back. Giving a blow by blow commentary of each sword stroke and magical strike. This book contains one of the best single combat scenes I have read in a very long time.

"Men like Matsuda Takeru the First existed only in legends, because of course, there were no real men who could end the troubles of a kingdom with a stroke of the sword."

 Like I said above, this is a Japanese-military inspired novel, so some of the terminology and formal names took me a while to get used to. Heck, I didn’t even know there was a glossary until I got over halfway through the book. Thanks to my BR companion Samir for pointing that out to me, but I already had most of it figured out by then. I say this because I don’t won’t anyone to get discouraged from reading this for a simple thing like terminology. You will be missing out on a truly remarkable story. I have no doubt I will be reading this multiple times over the years to come. There are a few other things I would like to say, but I believe I will stop here. I don’t want to give too much away. Most of the magic of reading is finding out for yourself. Although, I would like to send a shout out to Petrik for convincing me this was a book I needed to read as soon as possible, instead of letting it sit on my TBR pile until who knows when. You were absolutely right, bro. As usual!!! 

"You learn over time that the world isn't broken. It's just...got more pieces to it than you thought. They all fit together, just maybe not the way you pictured when you were young."

Actual Rating: 5 stars *****