4.5 stars
It was the teeth of winter. It was poetry. It was God in water.
Absolutely incredible. Truly, a stunning and affecting effort from a previously unknown author that now has my full attention. M.L. Wang: "I’m alive to write this story because, in 1937, in a Jiangsu Province village outside Nanjing, a Japanese bullet missed my great grandmother when she bent down to get a cooking pot. Certain events in The Sword of Kaigen harken back to the Nanjing Massacre, holding true to the guiding principle behind the Theonite universe: the mile walked in another’s shoes. What if you had been on the other side? What if it had been your family?"When I wasn’t sobbing through The Sword of Kaigen because of how honest and how raw it was, I was sobbing at how touching the story was to look at. Or at how extraordinarily riveting it was. Or perhaps simply with the relief of having my love for books reconfirmed. 
“A life of dangerous adventures might seem worth it now, when you are young and seemingly invincible, but one day, you will have children, and you will not want that life for them.”
Here is a story about someone having their dreams deferred and ambitions reconsidered and failing to make the most of what they have. It’s a story about an inexpressibly poignant character that will touch your soul so deeply and so profoundly. It’s a story about a mother.
“Caring for my family meant putting away the fighter, so I did.”
I didn’t expect this story to be what it was, to do what it did. Books are remarkable because they can be tremendous vehicles for escapism, but they can also be a means of getting in touch with the essential elements of humanity. This is what separates good books from great books, in my opinion.Misaki Tsusano-Matsuda, a 34-year-old mother of four, a housewife, is hardly the archetypal heroine you’d find in fantasy. She is someone who’s life did not pan out the way she expected and it’s a life she struggles to come to terms with. She is deeply unhappy. She has reduced life’s colours to greys and matched the experience of living to a chore, resigning herself to “pushing out Matsuda babies.”A character in her circumstance is always incredibly intriguing to me because hers is a dynamic rarely explored in fantasy. She also sounds uninteresting while not being so at all. Depression can also be an unsuspectedly hard situation to represent, and in my opinion, Wang wrote it with brilliant perceptiveness. The way in which the author showed such a spectrum of nuances in Misaki honestly amazed me. The richness of her as a character and her situation in The Sword of Kaigen is its biggest strength, absolutely. She is so well developed that the result is a great emotional resonance in the push and pull between her and the people around her. Her love, misery, and pain bubbled off the page. I could feel it. It was a palpable presence. It left a kind of lingering despair, even long after I set the book down. It does not get 5 stars because it has an unorthodox structure that I was not the biggest fan of. It’s set in three parts and the pacing was wholly uneven. The first third was setup where we’re provided with the flavour of who Misaki is with early depictions of her life interspersed throughout. It’s hard to figure out here where the story is heading and requires more than a little patience. The middle was intense nonstop action. And the last third was the aftermath. This part dragged on a bit too long and felt like a forced setup for another book. It extended the novel a bit beyond its natural denouement and caused me to really start to feel the 651-page count. However, it’s not a large problem. •	A few words to describe this book: uncompromising, painful, and at times difficult to read. It will be challenging for some and sobering for others. It is the tale of a mother and her son, a son and his father, a wife and her husband, the bonds that exist between them, and the bonds they wished existed between them. If you intend to read this book, please do it as I did: in the dark. Don’t spoil yourself anything. The journey will be a million times more stunning and beguiling, I promise.PS. If the premise doesn’t sound like your cup of tea, the book still might have something for you. There are some incredible set action pieces involving the use of elemental magic that were so fun to read. There were battles with ice dragons, duels, and scintillating sword fights. It has substance and style. Seriously, the whole shebang.