Seventh Son was a revelation to me when I found it for the first time as a teenager just done with the Speaker Saga and hungry for more Card. It wasn't just different from The Speaker books and the others of Card's that I had read, it was different from everything that I had ever read. On the surface, Seventh Son is just Ender's Game revisited: a young boy on whose shoulders rests the fate of the world. That sentence could describe half of everything Card ever published. But young Alvin, the seventh son of the title, is not Ender, and comparing their stories is like comparing apples to pears: not the very same species, but belonging to the same extended family. Where Ender was a quiet, preternaturally intelligent loner, Alvin is a socially sharp, physically driven force of nature. Where Ender's world is sterile and structured, Alvin's is teeming with life and covered with dirt. Where Ender and Alvin match is where two extraordinary boys stand at the crossroads dominion versus true leadership and must make a choice.Leaving Ender aside, Seventh Son is one of the most magical books I have ever read, and that is because it is so completely and unapologetically an American fantasy. Not that I think America is especially magical--just the opposite! Like many fantasy readers, I am both an Anglo- and Europhile, yearning passionately to be a daughter of the land of Stonehenge and King Arthur's Camelot. America seemed dead of all magic to me, especially when the fantasy books were filled with kings and queens speaking the Queen's English.What a surprise, then, to find an American frontier in Seventh Son that was unmistakably the one from my history books, and full of magic. And not Euromagic, either, with wizards and hedge witches waving wands and chanting, but American magic. Exactly the kind of magic that would have been carried to a New World by desperate dreamers just looking for a homestead of their own. (Jumping ahead to the second book, the Native American's green magic is exactly right, too.)And to weave this very American magic spell Card created the perfect campfire-and-moonshine, hill country, American voice as narrator. I think it's first person. If it is, it's an omniscient first person...whatever it is, it's perfect .This book is a standard setter for me. I don't think I will ever write anything this good. It's been a while since Card has written anything this good. But, no matter that the world is not knee-deep in books like this, there only needs to be a few of them to raise humanity's average to something we can collectively be proud of.