This book is a clear, fantasy parallel of the life of Joseph Smith, Jr., founder of Mormonism. If you know nothing of Joseph Smith's life, you might enjoy it as a uniquely American fantasy epic. If you are a Mormon, you will probably appreciate it even more.But if you are like me, and know about Smith's life, but believe his church's message is false, you might find it a bit painful. I get the references, and they're very good, and overall this is certainly the most creative and artistic explanation I've come across for some of the rather troubling aspects of Mormonism. Joseph Smith, before he had his revelation from God and began his own church, was involved in witchcraft. Particularly, getting people to pay him for his "divination" skills that would allow him to find them buried treasure. He never found any treasure, but he did make a decent supplement to his income by-- well, conning people, for which he was eventually arrested. Thoughtful, intelligent Mormons, such as Card, need an explanation for this. The most common explanation is what is seen here: Joseph Smith was involved in "white magic," a kind of light witchcraft that coexists perfectly with Christianity, and indeed expresses it better than churches do. Card creates an entire world of good magic, hexes, and light not-witchcraft, at war with the stuffy science of the Old World.Unfortunately, for me, the simple answer will always make more sense: Smith was a quasi-religious fraud, who grew up to be a rather more successful quasi-religious fraud. Also, according to the records left by eyewitnesses, Smith's "white magic" involved animal sacrifice, circles of blood on the ground, and calling on dark spirits at midnight. That seems to cross a line.This would have been four stars, except for the ending, where Card makes another of his hideous evangelical caricatures-- portraying traditional Christians as demon-possessed, rather lacking in discernment, and dangerous. Sorry, Orson, but these "Christians" of yours are just as bad as the miserly Jews and bumbling Negroes of centuries past, and just as revelatory of LDS prejudice against evangelicals. (Not that evangelicals don't have their own stereotypes and prejudices against Mormons.)