“The problem with the dead was that they all wanted someone to listen to them.”The Ghost bride's strength lies in its vivid settings, served by a lush imagery. It shines with its palpable atmosphere, with the fascinating descriptions of Malaysian culture and traditions. I fell in love with the evocative and compelling qualities of  Yangsze Choo's writing. Moreover, as I've mentioned in my weekly check-in, her narration is fantastic and suits the book perfectly - listening to Li Lan's story enhanced its out-of-the-world feel, and I adored that. So. What is The Ghost Bride about?Set in Malaysia, at a time when British imperialism extended its claws over half the world, The Ghost Bride follows Li Lan, a seventeen years-old whose genteel family stands on the verge of bankruptcy. One day, Li Lan's debts-ridden father informs her that Tian Chiang, heir of the wealthy and powerful Lim family, has proposed. Only problem? He's a tool, and oh! He's dead. Li Lan is horrified, of course, even more so when he starts - literally - haunting her dreams, his tantrums becoming scarier and scarier. It doesn't help that she has convinced herself that she's in love with his cousin, and heir-to-be, who is very much alive (she doesn't. It's a childish infatuation, at best : her vision of love is overdramatic and immature but it never annoyed me - how can we be anything else than lenient and understanding, given her situation?). Tian Bai, the recipient of her "love", is perfectly nice, I suppose. Yet because he's so very bland, I could never care for him. I didn't mind, though. But I'll come back to this.Riddled by nightmares and horror, Li Lan is desperate to get rid of her unwelcome suitor, even though her acceptance would mean her father's cancellation of debt. And who can blame her? Faced with mysteries and not knowing whom she can turn to and whom she can trust, she embarks in a dangerous journey, from her city of Malacca to the realms of the dead, where she'll have to navigate between ferocious foes and unexpected allies.What about the pacing?Almost all the reviews - even positive ones - I read complained about the middle and the slow pace but, I don't know, I never felt bored or even impatient. I'm pretty sure that's because the narrator's voice lulled me. Granted, there was a moment - the third wife, if you know, you know - when I felt a tiny bit confused about who was who BUT 1) it lasted a hot minute and 2) I was flowing. How could I mind, really?HOWEVER. As I said, I've never felt bored and genuinely enjoyed the middle part as well but wow, the last part was something else entirely, I understand why readers have been raving about it.   It!! Was!! Awesome!!! I couldn't listen fast enough, feeling so much - As Li Lan, I was SO angry, I was SEETHING *shivers* I was SO INVESTED, and the ending made me so happy, OKAY?... And the romance?Before I finish, I wanted to add a few words about the romance aspect of the novel and Li Lan's love interest(s) in particular - yes, there's a plural there. If I can understand the sentiment - truly, I do - for once I didn't share this particular complaint. First, Tian Bai and Li Lan. Their "romance" plays such a tiny place in the book, all things considered. Sure, Li Lan thinks about him, but their scenes are very rare, and you know, what I loved the most about her is the way she evolves throughout the story. When the situation demands it, she grows, and I was 100% here for that - there's something so satisfying in a coming of age story, don't you think? There's a love-triangle of sorts, but for once I genuinely enjoyed it, especially because *cough* I very much enjoyed Er Lang's character and all of their scenes together *cough*.... and that's all I'll say about it.Bottom line : The Ghost Bride is not a perfect book, maybe, but it was perfect for me. I've talked about my "professional" rating system in my review for Sorcery of Thorns *cough* don't mention it *cough* and it was again a great help here, but there's something else I took into account when I decided on my rating : will I reread this book? Absolutely. I will, oh so gladly. Had I not listen to it, perhaps I wouldn't have rounded-up my rating, but the stellar performance of the author in the audiobook made it impossible for me not to. In the end, I'm writing reviews to shout into the wind the names of the books that touch me, enchant me, in the hope that someone will listen. Can you hear me now?CW - fatphobia, sexual harassment, deathFor more of my reviews, please visit :