Library ebook....It seems two or three times a year I must read a tale that journeys me into the Asian afterlife...the Asian History...the culture....and the family at hand. I enjoy other Asian books by authors Lisa See, Janie Chang, Alice Poon, Tan Twan Eng, and others. This is my first novel by Yangsze Choo. She grew up in Malaysia...and is a 4th generation Malaysian of Chinese descent. She received her undergraduate degree at Harvard....and I’m thrilled to learn she is living here in the Bay Area ( with her family and several chickens). I have an advance copy of her new book “The Night Tiger”, which I also look forward to reading soon. Back to “The Ghost Bride”....... The wealthy Lim family approached Li Lan’s father about a ghost marriage. Li Lin was 18. Her mother died when she was a child. The Lim family was one of the wealthiest in their town of Malacca.....( later known as Malaysia). Malacca was a port, one of the oldest trading settlements in the east. In the past few hundred years it had passed through Portuguese, Dutch, and finally British rule.....during the 1800’s. Recently the Lim’s family son died...a young man named Lim Tian Ching. It wasn’t a ‘normal’ practice to marry the LIVING to the DEAD. It was rare.....but usually held in order to placate a spirit. Li Lan’s father was addicted to opium. He was withdrawn and bankrupt. She spends a lot of her time with her nursemaid Amah ( almost like an ‘acting’ mother)...but what I found interesting was that Li Lan’s father and Amah had very different ways of thinking. Amah was a shrewd & superstitious woman. She didn’t find the old customs and traditions a joke like her father did. So...at times Li Lan didn’t know what ‘she’ believed. Li Lan seemed very frail to me - not strong. I liked her but she didn’t have much inner strength of who she was for a long time. She cried constantly- at ‘every’ juncture. Cried ... and cried... and cried!  ..... when Lim Tian Ching began haunting her ......when she learned of Tian Bai’s arrange marriage... ......and when she was disembodied and wandering the streets of Malacca.Li Lan ‘becomes’ a stronger heroine .....but not until she overdosed on some medicine that puts her in a coma that takes her into the spirit underworld. She becomes a ghost herself. ( I know sounds corny)....but it’s here where we begin to see her strength and bravery. She meets deity Er Lang.....and together they uncover corruption—- a twisty gripping intense story kicks in. Love is found in all the unexpected places to boot! The atmosphere in this novel is captivating and lovely. Some scenes are ghostly creepy. Being transported into a dreamworld adds that magical fantasy element. This was an intriguing tale based on ancient Chinese myths. In the back of the book the author explains some of the Chinese myths....which for me adds to the appreciation of the entire mystical experience between the living and the dead. Utterly original.....beautiful prose...and the story had me wanting to know what was going to happen next.