Imagine having to marry a deceased bridegroom. Yes, you read that correctly. Although uncommon, this was the practice among some folk-lore practicing Chinese and is the ill-fate of Li Lan , a young woman in 19th century Malyasia in “The Ghost Bride” by Yangzse Choo. Despite some beautiful imagery and scene settings, “The Ghost Bride” is painfully slow. Even though it has the calming zen-like presence common to most Asian historical fiction novels; the plot is halted, as well. Choo has the habit of telling Li Lan’s story versus allowing the reader to ‘live’ it which is unusual as the story is told in 1st-person narrative. Li Lan never comes alive and is one-dimensional, boring, and not available for attachment. This weakens the pace of the story and filters the characters. “The Ghost Bride” flows too much like a young adult fictional novel as Choo simplifies and overly romanticizes the plot (in a teen lust of way) while also constantly explaining things. Meaning, Choo interrupts dialogue to explain a Chinese term or tradition or even has the characters explain these to each other in a “As you know, Bob…” style common to annoying HF novels. This is not how people think or speak to each in ‘real life’ taking away from the reality of the story. Also annoying is Choo’s overuse of foreshadowing which isn’t subtle, to say the least. Although “The Ghost Bride” is rich in historical context in terms of the story settings; the characters act, think, and respond in a much too modern way in comparison to other Asian historical fiction novels. “The Ghost Bride” is noticeably modernized, reducing the possibility of memorable and moving characters and/or plots. The novel simply lacks that special “oomph”.Even though “The Ghost Bride” has some strong moments, it generally repeats the same events over and over (just in a new way) with pages passing in an uneventful manner. When something does happen, the reader can’t truly feel it. Sadly, the idea behind “The Ghost Bride” is strong but the execution is poor. In fact, instead of being filled with strong folklore, much of the context just seems silly and fantastical. Much of the novel takes place in a supernatural world embedded in a mystery which is less action-packed than the characters make it seem. Albeit creative, this ghost plot is equivalent to the fictional books smothering the marketplace filled with vampires and wolves adding to that YA feel. In a sense, nothing “really” happens in “The Ghost Bride”. This is also reflected onto Li Lan whose character never grows resulting in a flat and even non-existent character arc.“The Ghost Bride” increases in excitement upon reaching the climax which does add to its readability and reader tolerance but it still lacks depth and the elements which would attract an adult reader. I can’t stress enough how much the book follows a YA path. Sometimes it is even less than YA, as I envisioned it as a children’s book. Surprisingly, there are some unexpected occurrences toward the end of the novel which creates some interest and drama. However, this slips into an ending which is too simple and “happily ever after” especially for a novel which attempted to be so adventurous, throughout.“The Ghost Bride” is definitely more of a YA novel than for adults. If you enjoy teen-oriented pieces with supernatural or fantasy theme, then “The Ghost Bride” is perfect. Otherwise, it lacks depth, historical merit, and a moving story. “The Ghost Bride” is a prime example of an overly publicized book falling short of its grandiose claims. SKIP!