Q: We are modern. And, of course, monstrous . . . (c)I read this one on a whim and am not disappointed too much. The good:- The banter lovely.- The sleuthy setting.- Love the setting and the character building. The bad:- Where's the info for the world-setting? Yes, I know, everyone's always crying about infodumps. Well, I love my infodumps and there's no info in here. Who are these people standing next to the grave? For example, who is this gal Diana? Why do I have to look for this unfo around the book specifically and not get it right away as soon as Diana appears in the text?- Are all the surnames freshly out? I don't like that Jekyll / Hyde surnames were repurposed. - I HATED the dialogue interruptions throughout the book. I'm sure they were supposed to be bantery and get the text lighty-flighty (and monstrous, of course) but they kept setting me on edge.- We are monstrous, so very fragging monstrous. Do you still remember we're monstrous? Yeah, we're monstrous to the extent you wouldn't believe. We're the monster monstrous. ... I got tired of this trope right away and of course this kept being repeated throughout the volume...Gosh, I'm so happy I don't live in that darn epoch!Q:In short, Miss Jekyll, since you have recently come of age, you may choose to marry. A young lady of your personal attractions would certainly prove acceptable to a man who is not particular about his wife’s fortune.” Mr. Guest looked at her meaningfully. ...“Thank you, Mr. Guest,” she said, rising and extending her hand. “I’m sure you’re very wise in worldly matters and all that. And I appreciate your advice. And could you please ask your clerk to fetch my umbrella and mackintosh?” (c)The fun quotes:Q:“I have no intention of going mad, at least not today.” (c)Q:“A lady should be able to pay her butcher’s bill,” said Mary. (c)Q:No wonder men did not want women to wear bloomers. What could women accomplish if they did not have to continually mind their skirts, keep them from dragging in the mud or getting trampled on the steps of an omnibus? If they had pockets! With pockets, women could conquer the world! (c)Q:She had longed for adventure, and now that it was happening to her, she was not sure how she felt about it. (c)Q:Umbrella, mackintosh, gum boots. She was prepared for the deluge. (c)Q:Sometimes she thought the world needed drowning. (c)Q:Footmen are ornamental in white stockings for dinner service, but not as useful as a good scullery maid. (c)Q:“Yet even a madman has method in his madness,” (c)Q:JUSTINE: We all need human sympathy.DIANA: I don’t. (c)Q:... as though someone had decided on large and ominous as a decorating style. (c)