Witches, werewolves, demons, ghosts, a dude with a bird for a head…this book has it all for a great spooky season read. Mooncakes by Suzanne Walker and wonderfully illustrated by Wendy Xu (who wrote and illustrated the very lovely Tidesong) is an adorable queer graphic novel packed full of action and emotion. When Tam, a werewolf runaway, returns to their childhood town to hunt a demon they are reunited with their former best friend, Nova, who aims to help them in their quest to discover ancient werewolf powers to defeat the demon. It is a story of experimentation, research and romance, with a large cast that examines family dynamics and trauma and while the story is a bit clunky it is so sweet and heartwarming that I couldn’t help but love it. Also there is plenty ofWitchcraft!One thing I really enjoyed about Mooncakes was how much it covers that will be relatable to teens living lives outside the realm of witches and werewolves. Tam is running from an abusive step-father, Nova is dealing both with the death of her parents and her parents (as ghosts) disappointed in her for not leaving town to pursue her dreams of witchcraft. Along the way we have friendly neighbors hiding ulterior motives, cults and a full on demon stalking about the town so mileage may vary if this is like your town or not. Seemed pretty believable as far as Holland, MI goes. I really enjoyed that there was non-binary representation with Tam using they/them pronouns and nobody having any issue switching to that, as well as Nova using hearing aids and finding ways to combine them with her magic to be more powerful. So that was all very cool. Speaking of which, the action scenes are pretty great and one thing Wendy Xu excels at is having frames that are stuffed full of things going on without ever feeling overcrowded or confusing.The artwork is fantastic in this and has a bit of a Studio Ghibli vibe to it with all the cottagecore scenery and outfits. It’s just all so very pretty to look at. The story itself is pretty involved with a pretty rich world and a lot of implied backstory, though sometimes it does feel less like being dropped into a larger world you can pick up through context and more like you accidentally skipped over an earlier volume or something. The characters are adorable though, if even a bit one-note, but I quite enjoyed them all interacting and supporting one another. It’s cute enough to gloss over a lot.So if you want a good queer graphic novel, Mooncakes is an adorable delight full of fun. This is perfect for the coming Halloween season, or just a cute read any time of the year.⅘