5/5 stars  Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy is a collection of ten novellas that follows Simon Lewis after the events of City of Heavenly Fire, the last book in the Mortal Instruments series.   Disclaimer: If you haven’t read the Mortal Instruments and the Infernal Devices series there will be spoilers and references ahead.   Simon Lewis has been a human and a vampire, and now he is becoming a Shadowhunter. The events of City of Heavenly Fire left him stripped of his memories, and Simon isn’t sure who he is anymore. So when the Shadowhunter Academy reopens, Simon throws himself into this new world of demon-hunting, determined to find himself again. Whomever this new Simon might be.But the Academy is a Shadowhunter institution, which means it has some problems. Like the fact that non-Shadowhunter students have to live in the basement. At least Simon’s trained in weaponry—even if it’s only from hours of playing D&D.Join Simon on his journey to become a Shadowhunter, and learn about the Academy’s illustrious history along the way, through guest lecturers such as Jace Herondale, Tessa Gray, and Magnus Bane. Written by Cassandra Clare, Sarah Rees Brennan, Maureen Johnson, and Robin Wasserman, these moving and hilarious short stories are perfect for the fan who just can’t get enough of the Shadowhunters.  If you have not finished all of the novellas and you would like to read my opinion on each novella separately the links are below. Each short summary of my thoughts on the separate novellas are a quick write up I wrote immediately after reading each one. Thus, my thoughts aren’t permanent and all over the place. Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy book and review links:Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Lost Herondale:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Whitechapel Fiend:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Nothing but Shadows:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Evil We Love:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Pale Kings and Princes:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Bitter of Tongue:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Fiery Trial:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Born to Endless Night:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Angels Twice Descending:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...    “Welcome to Shadowhunter Academy,” said Catarina Loss, her voice gentle.”    If Catarina Loss said this to me I would  probably  burst into flames right then and there. I have been waiting to read these because I wanted to read Lady Midnight immediately after. And boy was that a good choice. After finished all ten of the novellas I was having serious Cassandra Clare withdrawals. All I wanted was more Simon Lewis but I would definitely settle for Emma Carstairs. I absolutely loved all of the novellas, even if some of them had a few bumps in the foundation.    “Speaking of people being foxy, do you mean? I’m George Lovelace,” said George. “I say my surname without shame, because I am secure in my masculinity like that.”    Our  new  cast of characters is beautiful. First, we have the, mundane George Lovelace who has completely erased the prior Lovelace legacy in my eyes. He has a gorgeous, sculpted by Angel Raziel himself, body and a sexy as hell scottish drawl. In the first novella I thought he was going to be the  new Jace  but I was dead wrong. George Lovelace is the kind of guy that you would bring home to your parents. They might be apprehensive at first but when he opens their mouth your parents will be putty in his hands. George has the kind of attitude that complements Simon’s perfectly. He is kind, a little geeky now that Simon has gotten into his mind, and basically the sweetest characters you have ever met. The second mundane we meet is Marisol Garza. She is the youngest of the cast since she is only 15 and oh my goodness she is such a spitfire. She keeps up with the best in her class, including the shadowhunters, and follows the  say sorry later instead of ask for permission now , way of life. Now for the shadowhunters by blood. The first student, and my favorite out of the shadowhunters, is Beatriz Mendoza, an amazing girl who doesn’t follow the stream of elitists and makes her own path instead. When Simon Lewis speaks up about showing downworlders and dregs respect she is right there beside him. She does remain friends with her fellow students Jon Cartwright and Julie Beauvale, even though their views are very different compare to those. Julie’s mother had been one of the first to be turned into an Endarkened soldier by Sebastian Morgenstern. This fact has noticeably changed her demeanor. She keeps very close to those that she knows will keep her safe and will keep her on top, such as Jon Cartwright. Jon Cartwright is a boastful and extremely rude person. He makes snide remarks about the mundane students, calling them dregs, and always talks down upon Downworlders, even his own teacher Catarina Loss. There is really nothing good to say about Jon Cartwright, except for the last 3 or so novellas when he is  befriended  by a very good influence.The co-writing of these novellas were very interesting. Each writing pair had their own writing style and way of portraying Simon Lewis. First there was Sarah Rees Brennan. I thought the way she described the world and situations from Simon’s point of view was a little too stiff and you could definitely tell the difference between Cassandra Clare’s portions are hers. Clare would have quick witted or sassy dialogue and descriptions but then there were stiff and very detailed descriptions with words I would never see Simon using. Maureen Johnson’s and Robin Wasserman’s writing styles on the other hand flowed very nicely with Cassandra Clares. They truly portrayed the nerdy and loveable character that we know and love, each with their own subtle twist.    “You love, and tremble, and burn. Do not let any of them tell you who you are. You are the flame that cannot be put out. You are the star that cannot be lost. You are who you have always been, and that is enough and more than enough. Anyone who looks at you and sees darkness is blind.”    My favorite parts of each novella were the flashbacks. We were given stories about William Herondale, personally my favorite, Jem Carstairs, Tessa Gray, Robert Lightwood, the Circle, and many others. Each one giving me intense chest pains because of how beautiful they were. If you aren’t fully committed to reading a 600+ page collection of novellas about Simon Lewis do it for the flashbacks. All in all Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy was an amazing collection of novellas. The novellas take place over the span of two years and each one covered a substantial amount of time. None of them felt rushed or spaced out too much. Cassandra Clare, Sarah Rees Brennan, Maureen Johnson, and Robin Wasserman did a great job writing them and I will definitely be reading The Bane Chronicles now that I know I enjoy the short story bind ups. Each novella gave us new details and characters that I hope will be applied to Lady Midnight because that would make the story ten times better. I recommend this bind up for everyone who has finished the Mortal Instruments and the Infernal Devices.  The Infernal Devices isn’t necessary but it does help with some of the flashbacks.