Buddy read with Jia!Okay, I liked this book for the most part but there were definitely sections that dragged on that I gave 0 shits about. I think in the end I ended up actually really liking 3 of these novellas, while the other 7 I didn't overly care for. Basically my main problem was the fact that Simon is my least favourite character from TMI. I find him annoying as all hell and I really struggled to get past that. As you'll see, my favourite novellas were ones that he had very limited role in. I just feel like he's a useless character and I would 10/10 sacrifice him (sorry Amber).Welcome to the Shadowhunter Academy - 2.5 stars"We all want to be heroes, but you know you can be one. You know in another life, in an alternate universe, however you want to think of it, you were a hero. You can one again."Basically this novella was just introducing Simon and us as readers to the Shadowhunter Academy which is basically a dump now. We meet a whole bunch of new characters that we will be seeing throughout the novellas - mainly George Lovelace, who is Simon's roommate. We also get more in depth into Izzy and Simon's (lack of a) relationship now that Simon has no memory of them being together basically. Look, this drama pissed me off throughout the entire book. The Lost Herondale - 2.5 starsLook, I've got nothing to say about this novella. There's a missing Herondale child somewhere in the world and since I've read Lady Midnight, I know who that is. Amazing. The end. The Whitechapel Fiend - 4 stars"I am Tessa Gray and I believe in the importance of stories."Tessa comes into the Shadowhunter Academy to share some stories and she tells the story of how she actually knows the true identity of Jack the Ripper since they had to deal with those issues back in the day. Look, this was one of the best novellas since a) Tessa and Will are amazing and I love them and b) it's about Jack the Ripper which is always a great story to hear about since I loved reading Stalking Jack the Ripper a little while ago. The best part of this entire novella (and the book in general) was Will and Tessa's son, James, running around yelling "SPOON" at everyone while he held a spoon.Nothing but Shadows - 4 stars"You are the flame that cannot be put out. You are the star that cannot be lost. You are who you have always been, and that is enough and more than enough. Anyone who looks at you and sees the darkness is blind."In this novella we follow James Herondale (the spoon boy) who's now 13 and is now attending the Shadowhunter Academy. It basically tells the story of how Matthew and James went from enemies to parabatai. We also learn a little bit more about James' gifts and how Tessa being a warlock has influenced who he is today.The Evil We Love - 3 stars"He would accept Valentine's offer. He would let Valentine choose for him, let Valentine believe for him. He would do whatever he needed to hang on to Valentine, and to the circle and to it's cause. It was all he had left."We follow Robert Lightwood in reliving the beginnings of the Circle which was run by Valentine and basically started all the shit that happened in TMI. Robert was parabatai to Micahel Wayland and they were best friends until Michael confessed that he was in love with Robert, which basically resulted in Robert being extremely loyal to Valentine and losing his way. It also kinda explains why he would be semi-homophobic when Alec came out all those years later.Pale Kings and Princes - 3 stars"Trust a faerie at your own risk, because they are for nothing but themselves. They sow nothing but destruction. And their preferred weapon is human love."Basically Simon and Izzy's relationship really started to go to shit and it really got on my nerves in this one. Also we had Helen Blackthorn come and tell the students about how she came to be basically and that her dad and uncle were captured by the Fair Folk - thus resulting in both Helen and Mark Blackthorn. I mean, I've heard this story in Lady Midnight, so I was pretty bored in it. Bitter of Tongue - 3 stars"You are Mark of the Wild Hunt. You ride on the air, a hundred dizzy wheeling miles above them all. They will never hurt you again, save that you let them. Do not let them."Simon somehow gets captured by the Fair Folk, where he meets Mark Blackthorn. It was actually interesting to see Mark where he wasn't completely fucked up by the Wild Hunt. Basically he still thinks the Shadowhunters are going to come and save him - but they're definitely not. It really explains why he acted the way he did in Lady Midnight. The Fiery Trial - 2 stars"It makes sense. You and me. I feel like it's always been true. It's always what we were."What the fuck was this novella. I was confused for the entirety of it and when it was explained why it all happened, I eye rolled so hard. What a shocker, Clary and Simon are "true parabatai". Amazing. Never saw that coming. I just eye rolled so hard again thinking about how lame this one was. We also get to see Julian and Emma become parabatai which was good to see them and the gang again. I think this was my least favourite of the novellas tbh. Born to Endless Night - 4 stars"He had thought he lived life believing a thousand possibilities were open to him. But he had not thought of this possibility as being open to him: family life like mundanes and Nephilim had, love so secure that it could be shared with someone bran-new to the world and helpless."This was my favourite novella because Simon and Izzy finally fixed their shitty drama. Also, the best part was obviously Malec moments. A blue baby warlock was randomly found at the Academy and Magnus and Alec decided to adopt him and name him Max (after Alec and Izzy's brother). It was honestly so sweet and adorable and this was the one I've been really looking forward to reading for ages!Angels Twice Descending - 3.5 stars"and his veins burn with angel fire and he is the Simon he once was and the Simon he then became and the Simon he now will be, he endures and he is reborn, he is blood and flesh and spark of the divine. He is Nephilim."Okay, so I already knew how this book was going to end (thanks Jia for the spoiler). I'm actually pretty annoyed that that certain event happened. Like, it was so unnecessary and not at all needed. The only character I god damn liked and now this happens to them. Rude. This is an attack and I would like to know why the hell that needed to happen. Everything could have been fine. But nope. Screw you all. Okay honestly the more I think about this ending the madder I get. It was pointless. It honestly feels to me that Cassie didn't know how to tie up this one loose end so she took drastic measures to quickly solve the problem. It wasn't needed at all and I'm actually really annoyed by this.