Previous rating: 3.545897468 stars. (Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know, I read this one very wrong the first time around.(New rating: 4.12356458 stars. (Seen the light I have! Go me and stuff!)➽ And the moral of this reread is: not-edible exploding fluffballs for the win!➽ And the other moral of this reread is: chick movies with no small birds in them are complete rip-offs, if you ask me.That's not exactly the type of small bird I had in mind but yeah, sure, whatever and stuff.👋 Until next time and stuff.[September 2019]Actual rating: 3.545897468 stars.This one should have been thrice as deadly as the first instalment in the series was. Or wasn’t. Or should have been but shockingly proved to be not. Or vice versa. Perhaps. Then again maybe not. (In case you were wondering, YES, I am feeling slightly a little bit confused as fish right now. I think.) Anyhooooo and stuff. As I was so brilliantly trying to explain, I should have DNFed this book twice as fast as I didn’t DNF Written in Red. (What do you mean, this sentence makes no sense? Of course it does. You’re just not drunk enough to appreciate the full extent of its unfathomable depth and stuff.) So. Yes. I mean no. As in no DNFing this one either. Bloody stinking shrimp of the lethargic barnacle, I sure seem to be getting disgustingly soft in my old age. I’m telling you, Decades Younger Nefarious Little Me of Last Year would have unleashed the crustaceans on this deliriously slightly dull story before even getting to the third chapter. So much…nothingness! Such deliciously irrelevant details revealed and unnecessarily stretched to deathly death! There’s even less stuff happening than in the first book! Not to mention that the plot doesn’t truly develop until you get to the last part of the story! And Meg! She’s as flat and bland as ever! So is Simon! And there is as much chemistry between them as there is between malnourished yeti crabs and apathetic jellyfish! And I’m all for slow-burn romances but I think there’s a slight chance I might die before these two even start thinking about whether they should consider maybe getting close enough to possibly air-kiss on the cheeks! It’s wonderful! Let’s dance!So why did I finish the book, you ask? Because I’m a masochist, you say? Well there is that, yes. But there is also the fact that I kinda sorta like this world a little lot. Because it’s original and intriguing and stuff and I want to keep reading about it and stuff. Also, I kinda sorta like all the characters that are not Meg and Simon in the series and want to keep reading about them and stuff. (Grandpa Erebus = 💕 lurve 💕) Also also…err…nothing really. I mean, I’m not even that interested in the whole Cassandra Sangue Thingie (CST™). Or the in the series arc. I just want to know more about the Courtyard, its inhabitants and their daily lives. Oh my shrimp. It’s official, I need professional help. Fleet Admiral DaShrimp! Fetch Dr Prawn at once! My Once Superior Brain Cells (OSBS™) seem to be affected by a most cunning disease! Its progress must be stopped before it reaches its final stage and I start rating Young Adult Paranormal Fantasy Romances 6 stars and stuff! My thoughts exactly.P.S. Oh, in case you were wondering: Yes, crows were viciously murdered slightly harmed during the nearly non-existent development of this plots. Ooops. Spoiler warning and stuff. You’re welcome.[Pre-review nonsense]Bloody shrimping hell of the stinking fish, I liked this instalment, too! What is happening to me??!!! Did my evil twin cunningly take over again???!!!Super Extra Short Review (SESR™) to come and stuff.· Book 1: Written in Red ★★★★· Book 3: Vision in Silver ★★★★· Book 4: Marked in Flesh ★★★★· Book 5: Etched in Bone ★★★★