Sale Alert: Amazon daily deal on 27Jul21 $1.99What a great second book in the series. I did like the first book just a smidge more but it was only by a little.A few things that I continue to like about the series are that the Humans are not the big cheese Alpha dogs of the story. There might be some that forget that, forget that the creatures known as the Others really control it all but they get some pretty big reminders of that in this book. The other thing I like is the Others aren’t shifters. They don’t think like humans and they do not understand most of our ways. That becomes more and more clear as we spend a little more time with them. There will be misunderstandings like when Simon was a wolf before he and Meg fell asleep but looked like a man later.“Weeeellllll. When my mom takes a nap, our cat curls up with her, and my dad doesn’t care. But I don’t think he’d like it if the cat suddenly turned into a man.”“Why?” Simon demanded. “The cat would just be a cat in a different form.”Heather made a funny sound and didn’t answer. Monty quietly cleared his throat before he said, “A form that would be able to have sex with a human female.” “I didn’t want sex!” Simon shouted. “I just wanted my share of the covers.”I do enjoy the slow burn, semi confusing relationship that is building between Simon and Meg. It looks like it will take awhile for it to manifest in any big way but there is enough that I’m totally enjoying the romance that could build.In this book were learn how both the Gone over Wolf and Feel Good drugs are made. Man this series really makes me hate the humans and the horrible things they can do. There is an introduction of a few new characters from other Courtyards and the Intuits a human culture that lives alongside the Others in their own community. We also get a better look into the Controller and the place that Meg escaped from. It is always fun to see how new Others see Meg especially when they are scared of what she is only to see the woman in Liaison’s office.“Simon?” Charlie finally said. “It was just a mouse.” “I know,” he replied. “A small mouse.” He sighed. “I know.” “So,” Alan said after a long pause. “That’s Namid’s terrible creation?” “Yeah. That’s Meg.”There is also the very real difference between humans and the others. Something as simple as a fairytale takes on very different meanings depending on which side of the story you are on. Take Little Red Riding Hood for instance“Officer Kowalski is in HGR, talking with Alan Wolfgard,” Tess said. “They were discussing a story about a girl who gets swallowed by a wolf and then rescued by a hunter. Apparently, whether you see it as a story of love and courage overcoming danger or a horror story about devious humans depends on whether or not you have fur.”The story line was well plotted and I possibly wanted a little more carnage at the end but I did enjoy the resolution to this story arc quite a bit.My favorite things in this series so far❤️- Simon and Meg and their super adorable yet awkward courtship that they don’t even realize they are doing.“You want to get a look at Meg?” “Yes, I’d like to meet her. But more than that, I’d like her to get a look at me.” He thought about that too—and decided tearing out Steve’s throat was an honest response but not an appropriate one. And since he had enough to think about, he wasn’t going to ponder why that was his response.ღ - Tess’s hair. I’m a little jealous that my hair doesn’t change color and curl with my moods.❥ - The elementals and their Grumpy Ponies. That is an unusual aspect to this world that I haven’t really seen in anything else.❦- Simon learning how to deal with Meg’s human pack. Sometimes they don’t seem to understand that He is the Alpha.❣ - The different kinds of Others and how each retains a little part of the animal aspect no matter the form. Remember they are not human.