When a man you know of sound mind tells you his recently deceased mother has just tried to climb in his bedroom window and eat him, you only have two basic options. You can smell his breath, take his pulse, and check his pupils to see if he's ingested something nasty, or you can believe him.And thus begins The Steel Remains, a whirlwind of sex, violence and sorcery that sucked me in and left me wanting more 390 pages later.Where other men see only the rim of the world, you must look beyond. You must look to the sky.It follows three main characters, Egar, Archeth and Ringil, all of whom I felt were very well developed. I struggled with liking Egar and Ringil, more so with Ringil, because of some of his actions, but despite that I did find myself liking him. My favorite by far however was Archeth.Pull on the cold, clinking mail of your professional detachment, Archeth Indamaninarmal, inhabit it until it starts to feel warm and accustomed, and in time you'll forget you're wearing it at all. You'll only notice when it works, when it stops you feeling the steel-edged bite of something that might otherwise have gotten through and done you some damage. And then you'll grin and shiver and shake off the blow, like warriors do.The book is fairly dark. There is a lot of sex, violence and swearing that some people may not appreciate. For me, I thought the battle scenes were some of the best I've experienced and although I normally do not like a lot of sex in my books, the rest of the book was so good that the frequent sex scenes did not bother me as much. A large part of why this book was a winner is the world building. It is superb, with unique creatures, detailed history and creative cultures.The star however was the writing.Common men make a distinction between gods and demons, Poltar, but it's ignorance to talk that way. When the powers do our will, we worship them as gods; when they thwart and frustrate us, we hate and fear them as demons. They are the same creatures, the same twisted unhuman things. The shaman's path is negotiation, nothing more. We tend the relationship with the powers so they bring us more benefit than ruin. We can do no more.Richard K. Morgan has a way with words, and while occasionally his vivid descriptions made me shudder, it definitely left me with a lasting impression and a desire to see what else he can do.So if copious amounts of swearing and sex doesn't bother you, I highly recommend you pick this up. Cross posted at Kaora's Corner.