5 fucking. stars. are. not. enough.“You get to choose who you are. Legacy, memories of the past, can serve us well. But we cannot let them define us. When heritage becomes a box instead of an inspiration, it has gone too far.”Here is my playlist for Skyward because yes.And I also made a pinterest board, lmao.I'll start by saying, as always, you know me well by now, that there are spoilers in my review. So if you haven't read it yet, don't go any further.I read this book in Spanish and English, so, I was living the best of both worlds because I don't understand a lot of ships and it was hard for me to understand it in English along, so... you can say I read it twice, haha.All my life I've dreamed of being a science fiction writer. It's the dream of a fourteen year old girl who grew up reading books and dreaming about them. There's something about the genre that has always captivated me and it's my favorite.The thrill that Skyward gave me when I read it is something I longed for, the thrill of reading and not feeling the time, of asking for more even when I've finished the book. It's the kind of emotions that I wanna evoke on people.The way that Sanderson told the story... That's it. That's the fucking way I wanna tell my story (of course, it's not about aliens, but about superheroes, lol), because it grabs you and it's so fucking magical and exciting. You feel the anxiety of Spensa, her struggle and all of her emotions...You can tell for sure and bet that this is my favorite book of the year, one of my "marry you with paper rings" and one of my favorites ever.The story is well written and perfectly narrated. I fell for most of the characters and I cried like a fucking bitch. Yes, I was a fucking mess of tears and snot.I started disliking Jorgen, but I ended up loving him and willing to give my life for him. So, here's the thing, Brandon: if you hurt Jorgen or dare to kill him, I'm gonna set the whole world on fire.Same for Rodge, FM, Kimmalyn, Arturo, Nedd, M-Bot, Cobb and Spensa (even if I wanted to kick her sometimes, lmao).I'm still not over Bim, Hurl and Morningtide, just know that...M-BOT STOLE THE FUCKING SHOW. WE STAN A REALLY AMAZING IA WITH AN OBSESSION WITH MUSHROOMS AND GREAT INSULTS, LMAO.I already know too that you will crush my feelings with Starsight, but guess what? I'm a masochist and I'm ready to cry, laugh and get mad. I'm ready to get excited and also anxious.I had more ideas for my review JAJSKJDHKDJFDFH *laughs in Spanish* but I forgot them while I was sleeping aND THE FUCKING EXCITEMENT DOESN'T LET ME THINK RIGHT.THANKS, SANDERSON, for getting me out of my slump. For being my first book of his, it was pretty cool and awesome.It took me a while because, again, the reading slump was kicking me like a bitch.previous review:RTC!no, you don't understand. i'm obsessedsanderson, my therapist will hear about you