WARNING!! Although it’s a non-review review, it’s still spoiler-y. This spoiler-laden review was brought to you by the number 19!With Special Guest Star: The Eraser Hi kids! I’m the Eraser. Remember stay in school and don’t do drugs!The gunslinger waved to his pal, The Eraser, and thanked him for his help in dispatching the Kooky Krazy King of Krimson.“Thank you, Mr. Eraser!“That’s The Eraser, you twit!”“Sorry, Mr. The Eraserhead.”“Bah. I’ve got the holiday fever. I wonder if there’s an interdimensional door to an alternate universe Festivus celebration or maybe I can return to Batman continuity.”And he was gone.The gunslinger, now alone, turned towards the tower which not coincidentally towered into the clouds. From a loud speaker at the tippy-top of the tower, he heard, faintly, Elton John’s “Someone Saved My Life Tonight”.He hated that song.“Good golly, that tower sure is tall. And dark. Ish”He had to turn the song off, so he lumbered into the doorway of the tower looking for an elevator but only found a winding stair case. On the first floor he encountered Musty, the six-legged smelly mutant cat.“Gee Musty, you’ve grown a pace. Now get along and let me up those stairs.”Musty, now big enough and mean enough to block the stairwell, wouldn’t budge.“I reckon I ain’t goin’ nowhere until I gives ya a tongue bath.”Two hours later as the gun slinger, slipped past a sleeping Musty, he was pulling strands of cat hair from his mouth.The next level of the tower offered a buffet of cheese and mayo sandwiches and a case of Nozz-A-La Cola to wash it down, but all the gunslinger could think of was pound cake.Pulling more even longer threads of cat hair from his mouth, the Gunslinger grew queasy, but strains of that horrible song put him back on track and he climbed upward.The next few floors offered nothing more than a few lobstrosities here and some slow muties there. After he completed the painful climb through those floors the gun slinger reckoned he could get along without a few less fingers and toes. Dad-a-chim.Reaching the twelfth (or was it the eighth floor, it could have been the fourteenth floor) the gunslinger saw the big Gan, Stephen King himself all trussed up, just like the gunslinger left him back in Jeff’s last review of this series.“Oh, Mr. Gan, you got to help me turn this furshlinger song off!”“But I love this song. I wrote into the series and I won’t help you.”“Well then I reckon I’m just gonna have to leave ya tied up.”As Stephen King’s curses echoed in the stairwell and the gunslingers ears, he felt fatigued from his climb but knew instinctively that he was getting closer to the top of the tower.Cackling laughter floated down from the next floor. He knew it was the legendary gunslinger, Quick Draw.“Get up here, graymeat! I got somethin’ for ya.”He was scared, but terror and curiosity compelled him further up the steps.Quick Draw greeted him with a huge grin. Behind her was the door to the off switch.“I’ll let ya through this door, but first ya have to listen to a long-assed tale, I got to tell ya. It’ll only take me a couple a days and it will have little or nothin’ to do with this here adventure, so if ya have to use the can, hold it in.” She cackled. “And ya better listen to this story like ya mean it!!!”He felt himself drift off after a few minutes but a swift kick in the head woke the gunslinger up and he was pointed towards the door. He opened it, only to be greeted by a familiar bright light and a hot desert sun.As the door was slammed behind him and his brain swirled inside his head, he felt something in his pocket. He pulled it out to reveal – curiously - a magic wand…I want to thank my Goodreads Buddy Readers for an incredibly epic journey that spanned years, and especially our din, Sai Stepheny, who always makes buddy reads an enriching and fun experience. Thankee and long days and pleasant nights, ya crazy Mah Fah!!.