3.5 stars“You should watch yourself, child,” he whispered. “Not all here in the palace is as it seems.”Siri and Vivenna are princesses of the mountain kingdom of Idris, a minor power whose very existence is threatened by invasion from the Kingdom of the Iridescent Tones. And so, to avoid war, one of them must leave her home to marry the God King of Hallandren, a man reputed to be a monster.Read a book by Brandon Sanderson, and certain things are guaranteed to appear. An innovative magic system for one, and a really interesting religion. As a huge fan of traditional magic in fantasy, I am practically never impressed by new and innovative magic systems, and since this is more or less Sanderson’s most well-known strength it may be part of the reason why I am not so fascinated by his writing as a lot of other people are. Religion has always fascinated me however, and the mythology surrounding the God King of Hallandren and the Court of Gods was perhaps what I enjoyed the most about this book. The religious aspect is even more visible here than in the Mistborn trilogy.The characters… what to say about those? There are four POVs of any importance. Siri and Vivenna are mostly boring, and the latter is also quite frustrating from time to time. Might be an unpopular opinion, but there it is. The third is Lightsong the Bold, god of bravery, and though he’s a really nice guy whose repertoire of witticism and puns never seems to be depleted, his chapters are the ones where absolutely nothing is happening. But after more or less calling three of four POV characters boring, I should also mention that there are exceptions. Almost all the POVs have interesting chapters, especially towards the end.However, and it is a really important however, the fourth POV is absodamnlutely amazing. Vasher is a mysterious guy running around in the shadows of Hallandren with his companion Nightblood, who is nothing less than a sentient sword. I’ll leave the details hanging, but if someone could challenge the great Kelsier as my favourite Sanderson character, it would most definitely be this duo.And, apparently to compensate for the boring main characters, Sanderson has included yet another amazing duo in this book: namely Denth and Tonk Fah, the mercenaries with the fabulous mercenary humour. At first they seem almost to be introduced to the story as comic relief, but as the story progresses, the reader discovers that they are really so much more.One other thought: while reading this book, it struck me how simple it actually is. That is not meant in any negative way, but despite the innovative magic system and the developed religious system that are apparently mandatory in a Sanderson book, this is not particularly complex. The plot is fairly straightforward without any completely unpredictable twists, the characters are witty and simple people, and the purity and innocence of some of them is actually quite funny.So in the end, I’d say that this was a good book, and a recommendable one, but not as good as I would have hoped. I have now read five Sanderson stories of which only one was a masterpiece, but I’ll expect him to provide me with more in the future. An author this popular will always get the highest possible expectations from me, but I still believe he is perfectly able to meet them.“It's odd,” he finally said, “what history does to a man.”