Warbreaker's 2020 Cosmere Reread before Rhythm of War is DONE! Colours that was as awesome as ever! There are still so many secrets!!! I love this book! One more exclamation! :DI was lucky enough this time around to be able to experience the luxurious quality that is a Sanderson leatherbound book and it did not disappoint. And the artwork, friends - gorgeously illustrated images by fantastic artists, not to mention the beautiful drop-cap illustrations by Jian Guo! I coul not resist adding a couple of samples below:  ------------------------------------------------“My life to yours. My Breath become yours.” Warbreaker is the story of two very different sisters, who happen to be princesses, the God King one of them has to marry, the lesser god who doesn't like his job, and the immortal who's still trying to undo the mistakes he made hundreds of years ago. And a sentient, evil-destroying sword.Dear Brandon Sanderson.You had me at "sentient, evil-destroying sword."That man down there, Nightblood said. The god in the palace. He holds the power to start this war. You don’t want this war to start. That’s why he’s evil.“Why does that make him evil?”Because he will do what you don’t want him to.“We don’t know that for certain,” Vasher said. “Plus, who is to say that my judgment is best?”It is, Nightblood said. Let’s go. Let’s kill him. You told me war is bad. He will start a war. He’s evil. Let’s kill him. Let’s kill him. This story was all sorts of awesome. Yes, there were characters who bored me at first. *cough, Vivenna, cough*. Yes, this definitely reads as one of Brandon's early efforts as the writing is not as polished as his later efforts. So how to rate it? Well, a lot of people say that it's nowhere near the brilliance of the Stormlight Archives, and so not 5 or even 4 star material. I fully understand their arguments and cannot disagree. Those books are just on a whole different level of epicness. However, I prefer not to rate on direct comparisons, but rather on my level of enjoyment. And I really enjoyed this.The magic system is fascinating (info via Coppermind)- The system of magic on Nalthis is reliant on the presence of Color. Magic users are known as Awakeners and their power comes from the number of BioChromatic Breaths they have stored. A Breath can be thought of as a soul, or as the manifestation of the 'sixth sense'. Once robbed of the breath, a person is called a Drab. Drabs find it difficult to perceive color and do not experience the 'sixth sense' or the odd sensation resulting from someone watching you unobserved. The more Breaths a person obtains, the more dramatic their abilities become. There are ten levels or 'Heightenings' of this magic.Any amount of Breath allows Awakening: the ability to, through specific commands, call inanimate objects to life by investing Breath in them and draining the color from another object (Awakeners usually carry a few pieces of cloth for this purpose). The closer the object's resemblance to a human (anthropomorphic shape), the easier it is to awaken. Objects of a greater size require more Breath, as do objects directed to carry out complicated commands. Breath can be regained from objects by the person who invested them with the command "Your Breath to mine."Despite disliking one character early on, there weren't any that I didn't enjoy by the time I finished the book. The story sucked me in, and I finished it long before I thought I would. This was after all, my second read of Warbreaker, but I still enjoyed it as much, if not more than the first time I read it.Highly recommended.As a side note, this book has something that most of his other books could use a little more of - romance. Granted, it's not much and I would not recommend this if you are only in it for the romance, (So please, no angry emails demanding the "sexy time" I promised you!) but it definitely added value and I really enjoyed it.