This has the dumbest premise, but somehow Sanderson makes it work.So, everything is based on color in this world. Not skin color. Color-color. Like color is the thing that gives gods power. And the more color, or biochroma you have, the more powerful you are.And how do you get biochroma? You suck in breaths. Not real breaths of air, but soul breaths. Kind of? Some of the people believe your breath is your soul and some people don't. There are several religions based around this stuff and none of them are probably right. The point about the breath stuff is that you can give it away but only willingly. So if you give your breath to someone (usually for $$) then they get a bit more powerful and you become what they refer to as a drab. The more breaths you have, the more powerful you become. Some of that power translates into what you can see and feel, and some of it is the ability to animate objects to do specific tasks. There are all sorts of rules to this sort of magic and it's a bit too complex to try to explain in a few sentences, but you can basically make shit move like Mickey Mouse in Fantasia. The two princesses the blurb refers to are from this wonky little country of prudes who think that owning things with vibrant colors is ostentatious and offensive to their god. They dress blandly and modestly, try to keep their emotions under control, and basically just live with very little ornamentation in their homes. You find out that the oldest has been promised in marriage to one of the gods (head god, in fact) of the rival country as part of a peace treaty that was signed years and years ago. And her country hates these guys. They're all bold and colorful and instead of the One God, they worship lots of these powerful sidekick gods that are all brightly clothed and gluttonous, live in a special area for gods surrounded by their priests, and get catered to by being fed the breaths of children whose parents have been paid off. That's...nice?PLOT TWIST! <--this happens right away, btwThe king can't bear to send his lovely obedient perfect daughter off to get plowed by some gross god, so he does a last minute switch and tosses his loud, obnoxious, semi-rebellious youngest daughter to the wolves.What?!Hey, it's ok. Turns out she likes the wolves a lot better than she thought she would.And what about her proper, biddable, older sister?Well, she gets her ass in gear and heads across the countryside to save her little sister and maybe start a rebellion with some mercenaries that she meets along the way.OH SHIT! PLOT TWIST!But this time around I'm just not going to tell you what happens.Let's just say that not everyone is what they seem. Layers, folks. This book has lots and lots of layers.The gods themselves are also a big part of the story. There's a lot of mystery surrounding who they are and why they seemingly came back to life with all this power. <--did I mention that the gods were just regular people who for reasons unknown have popped back up from the dead?Well, they are.Except for the god that our rebellious princess has to marry. He's been BORN a god.Or has he? You'll have to read it to find out.Ok, so one thing I liked is that this doesn't end on a cliffhanger. Yeah, you can tell that there will be more tales coming in this world, and more than likely it will involve most of the characters you meet in this book. BUT. I also feel like you could stop here if you wanted to. Which is a nice feeling since it doesn't look like the next book in the series is expected to be out anytime soon.coughAnd this may be a controversial statement to make, but I know Sanderson fans are pretty cool, so I'm only a little scared.I actually liked this much better than Mistborn. Just the vibe of it. I thought eating metal was kind of a gross way to get superpowers, so all this color shit was much more my jam.Recommended.