A fate prophesised by the gods, but a song that still needed to be sung, and music that future generations would continue to play !!! ‘The Song of Achilles’ is a beautifully orchestrated retelling of one of Greek Mythology’s best known and best loved stories of the Siege at Troy and life of the legendary demi-god Achilles. A lyrical masterpiece that portrays the human side of the man, the lover, and the warrior who is destined to fulfil a prophecy that sees him fall after the death of Hector, sustaining the iconic Achilles heel injury.A story that is epic, timeless, and sad but told with great sentiment, heart, and soul. A book that does not try to recount the historical events of the past and the myths but rather embellishes them to play the song of Achilles.The Plot (skip if you know the plot)“In the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun.”Achilles meets Patroclus at school at the age of twelve, and soon the unlikely pairing of these two boys becomes a deep friendship. Wanting to separate the two boys and to begin Achilles life’s teachings, Achilles’ mother Thetis, sends him off to the centaur Chiron for three years to learn literature, nature, sacrifice, and the art of battle. However, not to be torn away from his friend, Patroclus follows Achilles into the caves and remains with him for three years as the love between the two blossoms. Following the legendary story of Helen of Troy, Achilles is asked to join Agamemnon’s forces to defend his brothers honour after Paris steels the beautiful Helen from her home. And now Achilles must fight for the honour of the most beautiful woman in the world, against the mightiest city of the east. A journey to Aulis and then Troy that will seal the fate of these two men. “The never-ending ache of love and sorrow. Perhaps in some other life I could have refused, could have torn my hair and screamed, and made him face his choice alone. But not in this one. He would sail to Troy and I would follow, even into death. Yes, I whispered. Yes”Review and CommentsThe Song of Achilles is first a love story and a tragedy but then the best love stories make the best tragedies and ‘The Song of Achilles’ meets all those expectations. Whilst there is no shortage of books that take their inspiration from centuries old stories of Greek Mythology, few will be ambitious enough to venture on a retelling of one of Greek Mythology’s best loved stories and Achilles life story from boyhood, and the boy who became a man and an infamous warrior.In doing so Miller tells of a love story that is sentimental but not overflowing in its protestations of love, a relationship that is touching but not overly emotional and a tale of two men human, flawed, imperfect but who each bring depth of character in their roles and strong in their principles but protective of each other. What I liked less was the slow burn nature of a book in the first half when the period and story already offered so much for the author to embellish. Nevertheless, this is a small point in a book that was truly stunning in its story telling, a brilliant work of fiction interwoven with the myths, legends and the greatest stories told in Greek mythology. A book that has modernised the legendary work of Homer but stayed true to the core of the Iliad and Achilles homosexuality. A human portrayal of a demi-god who loves, fights, and conquers. Yet it is his stubbornness and unyielding pride that is ultimately his downfall, but then again it was always written in the song – and if “..Music be the food of love. Play on” (William Shakespeare).4/5 stars