Update 22/7/20. Removing half a star. With a bit of time to reflect, I definitely preferred the second book and can't justify giving this one the same rating ***MAJOR SPOILERS***City of Brass 3 ⭐Kingdom of Copper 3.5 ⭐Empire of Gold 3 ⭐Daevabad Trilogy = 9.5/15 ⭐Firstly, Congratulations to S.A.Chakraborty on completing her debut trilogy, what a fantastic and hard-earned achievement!‘Empire of Gold’, despite suffering in the end, from a generic storyline, some under-developed and clichéd characters, one particularly unconvincing relationship and some all too convenient plot points, is an enjoyable climax to a solid debut series that a lot of people are going to love… Ha! I said enjoyable climax.When I read ‘City of Brass’, I was enthralled by this new world. A world based on the transcontinental region around Egypt which I have never read about. I was having to learn a bunch of new terms, names of clothing, people and places as well as Arabic rituals and it was great. But having finished the trilogy, all of it feels just a little bit surface level and inauthentic. I think there is a clear knowledge of the history of the region but no strong familiarity with the nuances of the society and people within. It felt like a typical Western Fantasy just re-skinned to fit a different region.  I still give kudos to Shannon for writing in a setting other than your typical medieval Europe. I hope there’s a lot more of it to come in the genre. I have seen quite a few people in their reviews or even early reflections on the series saying that they are enjoying it but it’s heavy on the politics. While I’m not devaluing anyone else’s opinion, I have to strongly disagree. I would say to anyone that is considering giving the series a miss because of its “political nature” to reconsider.  Mind you, if you’re considering reading the series, you definitely shouldn’t be reading this review ‘cos it’s spoilery as shit! The majority of the politicking going on in the series is Family politicking and in-fighting. There are lies and betrayal, scheming and backstabbing but no heavy politics. There are quite a number of different tribes with unusual names and customs but only three of these are fleshed out in any substantial way.Chakraborty gives plenty of breathing space at the beginning of the book for the characters to reflect on what happened in the final moments of ‘Kingdom of Copper’ and come to terms with the consequences of what took place. I liked this, it felt like a really mature section of the book, taking a step back and showing us where our mains were at mentally. It also gave plenty of time for Ali and Nahri’s relationship to thrive. Their FRIENDSHIP is the best relationship penned throughout the series. It is the most believable and the most wholesome and attempting to turn it into anything other than a platonic friendship really did it a disservice. It didn’t, however, destroy it. I had quite a bit of fun following Ali and Nahri on their journey and I thought they played off each other really well. If it happened, I wouldn’t have hated it.Nahri thrives in this final instalment. She is such a strong, smart and courageous female protagonist, you’d be hard-fixed to find anything to hate about her. Except for her teenage style crush on Dara early on but more on that later. She had insecurities earlier in the series regarding her shafit origins, her healing abilities and her role in a world she knew nothing about until very recently but like a Phoenix, she rises from the pile of ashes left in Manizeh’s wake and soars, shedding any of those insecurities and becoming the woman that she was born to be. The interference of the Peris towards the end of the novel seemed a bit out of place to me. I have a strong suspicion that it was a late addition to the story as a convenient means to give Nahri a way of reclaiming the power of the Suleiman’s seal. I did like how she cheated them though, that was a great representation of the side of her that will always be the ‘little thief’ from the streets of Cairo. Also, the late cutesy introduction of Mishmish the Shedu (Face-palm). You can’t introduce a pet in the last tiny part of a book. One, we have no time to gain an affection for the animal and two, it’s obvious that he/she has only been added to make Nahri’s survival more believable when she confronts Dara, Manizeh, 2 Ifrits and an army of ghouls/Smoke creatures…. Ha! It’s actually funnier every time I think about it.I don’t have a whole lot to say about Ali. He was previously my favourite character but I think he was potentially the weakest in this book. I enjoyed his chapters, particularly his interactions with Nahri, though his immaturity did my head in. It just didn’t seem like an adult relationship at times. Nahri might have sent mixed messages by brutally friend-zoning him on a couple of occasions but eventually she made it blindingly obvious that she was keen and he blundered it. Maybe he deserves to be friend-zoned. I must say, they did have a fairly touching scene before he goes off to seemingly sacrifice himself for the good of the Ayanlee. I feel similarly about the Marid plotline as I do about the Peri’s late involvement. It was just a convenient way to resolve the conflict between the Daevas and the Marid. At least Ali had to make some sort of sacrifice to achieve it… I suppose. Dara’s arc is one of redemption and it was, quite unbelievably, my favourite. It is grim! Oh baby, it is dark, that poor son of a bitch! He is struggling with the aftermath of Manizeh’s campaign of genocide against the Geziri people of Daevabad. He is seeing a change in Manizeh and finally grows some balls and begins to openly question some of her decisions. This doesn’t end well for him but that’s beside the point.Unfortunately, Shannon’s attempts to display the inner-conflict with regards to his love and loyalty for his Banu-Nahida on one hand and the fact that she is clearly going bat-shit crazy and genocidal on the other, often just ended in him doing contradictory things that kept robbing me of getting on board with his redemption. On a number of occasions, he commits a terrible act only to immediately lament the shedding of further blood and sowing of more fear… And then does it all over again. There is a scene in which he’s trying half-heartedly to convince a group of warriors not to fight him (they are more than justified in doing so). The minute that he realises they won’t be convinced he’s decapitating “dirt-bloods” and shoving his sword through the throats of “sand-flies” all the while thinking to himself how wonderful it is to bathe in the blood of his enemies!! What.The.Fuck. I had been telling myself since early on in ‘Kingdom of Copper’ that he must’ve been enslaved by Manizeh somehow in order to be so aware that the terrible things he was doing were wrong and still doing them but evidently not as this only happens in a truly tragic development towards the end of this novel. It was ALL HIM which, in my opinion, shows that in 1400 years he hasn’t changed a bit from ‘The Scourge’ that massacred Qui-Zi and, hence, is not worthy of redemption.Despite all of this, Chakraborty miraculously makes you feel a great deal of empathy for Dara in the latter part of the novel. When he is enslaved in an unthinkable act of betrayal by Manizeh whose family he has bent the knee to, loved and worshipped for a millennium only to be manipulated into taking part in countless horrific acts, you’d have to be stone cold not to feel something for the guy. Though his You even get the sense that one day, he may just have earned his redemption… If Chakraborty hadn’t written him into a corner earlier in this book and KOC. Nonetheless, individually, Dara’s arc is a good one and I feel that he came back with a vengeance after a fairly lacklustre role in KOC.I have to mention briefly the “relationship” between Nahri and Dara. The elephant in the room. This has got to be one of the worst, most unconvincing relationships ever written. There was never ‘love’. They spent a small time travelling together in ‘City of Brass’ and a young girl developed A CRUSH on a hot Daeva who, despite regarding her as a “dirt-blood”, decided the feeling was mutual. They really didn’t have any meaningful interaction once they reached Daevabad and the whole thing just felt forced. The lack of any genuine connection between the two meant that the final scenes between the two lost a lot of the potential they had to be massive moments. Dara probably should’ve been the main love interest but I don’t think Shannon committed to it early on. I may be completely off the mark here but I actually feel like Dara was out of place in ‘Kingdom of Copper’. Like, he should’ve stayed dead after ‘City of Brass’ but for whatever reason was written into the second book. And I think this may have damaged his redemption arc. Regardless, I think Chakraborty bought his arc back from the brink in the best way she could.Manizeh… How can I put this? The woman is the Devil’s spawn. Or maybe she is the reincarnation of the devil itself, I don’t know, but she is an evil of biblical proportions. That bitch is so cray, she makes Ghassan look like a puppy dog! The only problem is that she is a very shallow character and a bit of a cliché ‘Evil Aunt’. I get the whole “she had a terrible past; her family was massacred and the family throne stolen etc.” but I never felt for a second, “Man, that’s some sick shit but I can kinda understand”, No! She was just too far gone, too manipulative and self-serving. I think Flashback chapters from Manizeh’s perspective or someone who often observed her in the past would’ve been really interesting and might’ve fleshed her character out a bit more.Finally, the last part of the book (Part 4) was great. I think Chakraborty achieved a fantastic mix of melancholic sadness for what was lost or even just changed and a kind of guarded hopefulness for what the future holds. I was happy with the conclusion.That’ll do. My god, this review is long! If you have read until the end, I’m both proud of and a little bit concerned about you.* Being an early edition, my copy of the book also had quite a few grammatical errors and omitted words as well as a number of chapters (12,23 & 40) That were titled incorrectly with regard to which character’s perspective the chapter represented but it doesn’t affect the reading at all.