Little Thieves is the story of a girl called Vanja. She's the thirteenth daughter of a thirteenth daughter - aka bad luck incarnate. When Vanja was just a kid, her mother abandoned her into the care of Death and Fortune who cared for her like their own daughter, but everything comes with a price.Years later, Vanja makes a grave error while stealing some jewels, and ends up with a curse that could cost her her life if she doesn't figure out how to brake it by the next full moon.When I first saw the blurb for this book, the name Vanja caught my attention immediately. It's not an overly common name in my country, but I know several Vanjas, both male and female so I wanted to see if there was a special sort of Easter egg as to why Vanja is named Vanja. And no, not really. She just is, and that's okay too.Since I started with her, let's talk about Vanja. I didn't like her. Not in the beginning, not in the middle and not in the end. She's written to be a very unlikable character and she succeeds.I feel for her, because of what she went through and because of how all the others treated her while knowing almost everything that happened in her life, but that's it.Gisele wasn't better. There were only a few scenes where I liked her and those had to do with Ragne. Now Ragne, I liked. She was the best and funniest character. I love her beary much. Yes, beary.Then we have Emeric. He played a few parts, much like Vanja and I never warmed up to him. What I can say is that at least their romance didn't happen all at once. There was enough time to try and convince us that their feelings for each other are very real, it just didn't work for me.And finally, Adalbrecht. He gets one line because he deserves nothing more, I hate him.That's the characters done, let's talk about the rest of the book now. While the storyline was creative, it didn't grip me until 40% in. Those first 40% were...I don't want to say dull, that's not the right word, but I couldn't get myself to care about what was happening.Then, after that point, it gradually became better and better. By the end I was considering rounding it up to four stars, but that would mean ignoring nearly half of the book which wouldn't be fair. However, it didn't feel long. I didn't feel like I was reading 500+ pages at all, more like 350. The use of German in the book made the experience better for me, and most of the funniest scenes had some German words thrown in (even if a couple were a bit altered), we need more of this. What I also like, is that this book functions well as a standalone. The story is self contained so you can just stop here, or continue reading the series when the next book comes out, whatever strikes your fancy. Yay for no cliffhangers!As for me, I think I might stop here. Unless if Ragne is the main character in the next installment? Or perhaps we'll get a backstory book about the Gods? That would be cool.*Thank you to the publishers and NetGalley for providing me with an e-ARC in exchange for an honest review*