This book did not disappoint! I absolutely love Margaret Owen's creativity and ability to birth characters that are intriguing, unique, and hard to let go. Vanja has been added to the morally ambiguous, Slytherin girls' unite hall of fame. Emeric took me by surprise, as he starts off as Wesley Wyndam-Pryce in Buffy...but ends up really being Wesley circa Angel.He has this vibe when he goes after Vanja, cause he is smart and figures her out in no time at all. Vanja of course takes offense and immediately assists him off a very-high-and-possibly-not-survivable-window.The relationship between Vanja and Gisele is complicated. Vanja was Gisele's maid, and she considered herself Gisele's best friend, until a certain point in their lives when Gisele's family makes it pretty obvious to Vanja where she stands. Gisele comes from privilege and is unable to see how Vanja is really treated by her family as Gisele herself tries to treat Vanja as a sister but has huge privilege blinders on making her unable to really have a connection. Vanja is of course resentful, so when opportunity to get back at Gisele, and greatly improve her odds, arrives she does not hesitate. Gisele has problems of her own, as her mother treats her terribly and hacks at Gisele's confidence bit by bit, ultimately giving her off to our antagonist (an extremely unpleasant fellow) as one does in medieval times to improve their odds.Ragne is a shapeshifter, daughter of the goddess that curses Vanja for stealing one of her protection amulets from a high born lady. Vanja is cursed to grow gems on her body until she makes things right and returns what she has stolen/does a truly selfless act. Ragne sticks around Vanja, and quickly becomes the most adorable pseudo human as she slowly learns human etiquette but only the parts she wants/likes and leaves the rest behind. She is powerful, and a truly great companion to Vanja as she is the only one who is always there and understands her better than everyone.I truly came to love these characters. The world, the magic, the ways goddesses mess with human lives, the morally grey decisions... *in lurve* Margaret Owen is an instant buy/pre order author for me. She has written two duologies so far (because I guess this book has a sequel!!) and I loooved her first, and love this one as well.PS; I was provided a review copy in exchange for an honest review. Thanks go to the publisher!Old comment pre publication:This could be Margaret Owen's grocery list, and I'd still pre-order.PS; I need this cover in my liiife. Please someone make a special edition with red sprayed edges <3