Insufferably verbose - you can't go a full scene without McKinley interjecting with 6 pages of worldbuilding - and painfully overwritten. By the end of Part II, about 200 pages in (paperback ed.) we've had literally three (3) things happening, the rest of the page-time being dedicated to vapid dialogues, insipid characterization (I found telling this amorphous blob of secondary characters apart all but impossible), an overly-detailed worldbuilding that somehow still manages to come off as inconsistent and vague, and a frankly inexplicable obsession with the genetic makeup of supernatural creatures I'm pretty sure absolutely no one has, like, ever asked for.The protagonist - called, variably, Raven or Rae or Sunshine: obviously she couldn't be your run-of-the-mill Lisa or Ashely because, and I hope for your sake you're receiving this mind-blowing piece of news while sitting down, SHE IS SPECIAL (but props to McKinley for coming up with not one, not two, but three equally absurd names for her, I guess?) kept addressing the readers directly for no reason I can fathom, save for the fact that the woman clearly suffers from a bad case of being incapable of shutting up ("Mind you..." Mind what, Raven-Rae-Sunshine? Mind what). Or possibly McKinley thought this is a cute literary quirk? *Shudders*The book is also ridden by extremely uncomfortable jabs at people who suffer from addiction (according to McKinley covering yourself head to toe with mud and algae from the nearby lake will give you the distinctive appearance of a swamp monster drug addict) and mental health issues (ah, the early 2000s!) but the crown for Cringiest Moment of All goes to that time Raven-Rae-Sunshine's thoughts took a bizarre tangent that brought her to consider how "ugly people" are perceived as being more threatening than "beautiful people" (she also mentions "a study" to support this profound truth about human nature so this is clearly Scientific Stuff).Whatever. Don't mind me, I'm extra cranky because most of my friends apparently really enjoyed this, and I am bitter, all right? I wanted in on the Sunshine love train too! But I just couldn't take this book seriously (McKinley didn't help any, what with using words like "globnet" for the internet, "blinks" for dollars, "thing-thralls" for folks subjugated by incubi/succubi, and "Carthaginian" and "Spartan" as, I kid you not, swear words). Nah.