This is my 4th Robin McKinley book and I have yet to fall under the spell of her writing.And this one has kind of the same problem that the rest of the books had - there are a lot of words here and not a whole lot of anything much storywise.400 something pages of whothefuckcares for 150-200 pages of something actually happening to move the action forward. There's just a lot of staring off into space and picking at a hole in her jeans going on here.  I mean, it's interesting that she likes to bake. But I don't need to be reminded about her love of baking in her family's restaurant on every other page. You know what I can do? Bake. You know what I can't do? Magic. So why don't you take all that page time you spent telling me about her fucking cinnamon buns, and describe to me what kind of magic she has going on?So you have a baker who finds herself chained up in a room with a vampire and they escape their captors due to some spoilery magic stuff. Over the course of the book they awkwardly bond and perhaps even grow to have a romantic relationship at some point. I'm completely unsure about that last part because while she is apparently attracted to him at times, she describes him as ugly. Usually, if you're interested in someone romantically, you don't personally find them repulsive. Just saying.So, that ending was...I don't know. Weird. There actually could have been a really good story, but McKinley decided to focus all of the energy on everything that wasn't of the least bit of interest to me.There are all kinds of paranormal creatures in this world, including the vampire that Ray befriends. So, maybe some in-depth vampire lore? Forget it. Let's go on about how squishy the dough feels.Ray's father? How did this super-wizard family simply disappear from the face of the earth? Nah. Let's discuss some chocolate cake recipe she came up with last year.What about the reasons behind her mother's decision to leave her father and basically go into hiding? Nooo. Let's talk about how her biker boyfriend is nice and really good at not really being too talky or bothering her about stuff.WHAT?There's a cool story set in an interesting world here, and that's maybe why I was so frustrated when it was over with. It could have been such an amazing book, but it wasn't because it skipped over the interesting bits in favor of all the mundane garbage. It was like picking up a book about a famous battle, but instead of hearing about the action, the author mainly recounts what sort of soap the soldiers used, the kind of linen their boxer shorts were made of, and if they liked the noises the tent flaps made at night.And I get that there are readers out there that are interested in that sort of war story.But that reader isn't me.Sunshine isn't my jam, but I can't in good conscience say that it is badly written. Ten billion fans of this author's work can't all be wrong. It just isn't the type of story I personally enjoy.So.If you're a fan of McKinley, then you already know how her stories tend to wander around, and you'll probably love this one.If you haven't read any of her books yet but dig that sort of thing, this book will be right up your alley. But if you're an action-oriented reader like I am, this story might just test your patience.