Sunshine is definitely worthwhile if you like vampire lit, though this is a bit of an odd one. :) This urban fantasy novel starts with a bang, one of my favorite beginnings in a fantasy novel. Rae "Sunshine" Seddon is kidnapped by a gang of vampires, chained to the wall in an abandoned, isolated mansion, and left as a victim for another vampire, Constantine, who is also chained up nearby (the gang even cuts Sunshine so the blood will make her harder for Constantine to resist). But resist he does, even as daylight comes, though it’s a near thing, and they know the vampire gang will be returning when night falls. Then Sunshine begins to remember some near-forgotten magical skills taught her many years ago by her grandmother. It’s a game-changer - but her odd (and very secret) alliance with Constantine may also bring Sunshine into situations where she’s faced with dangers she’s never known before. I knew nothing about this book when I bought it - this was back in the day when I was auto-buying everything Robin McKinley wrote, a time that has now, sadly, ended for me as her stuff's gotten progressively weirder over the years. But this one is only semi-weird, and definitely worth reading if you're interested in vampires and urban fantasy, except without the smokin' hot sexy vampire. Okay, there is a rather sexy scene, and Constantine the vampire is a very cool character but also, undeniably, vampirish, in a not-really-sexy kind of way.I loved what McKinley did with the main character and her magically gifted family and with vampire lore in this novel; I just wished she'd dug a little deeper into the world-building and the family history. And there is (as typical with McKinley) one of those murky, bizarre nightmarish scenes where you're not sure exactly what's going on except that it's highly strange. The story doesn't wrap up with a nice bow either, which left many fans hoping, in vain, for McKinley to write a sequel or at least another book in this world. But there are at least parts of this story that are truly fantastic - the first few chapters are AMAZING - and shouldn't be missed. At least if you're interested in vampire lit. :)