Read April 2, 2010:Wow, wow, wow. I adored this installment of the Mercy series, and it is definitely one of my favorites. This book was a bit of a change from the rest of the series though. Usually Mercy's adventures are action driven with a lot of humor, wit, danger, and a sprinkle of romance to tease readers. With this book though romance definitely took the front seat in terms of plot with action/plot taking a more secondary role. Either way though it was fantastic.The plot combined my 2 favorite elements in the Mercy universe - Werewolves and the Fae. Werewolf politics are amazingly structured, confusing, and strict. Every peek we get into the complexities of dominance, gender issues, and the magic behind their ties is so detailed, insightful, and engaging. The Fae continue to be the more intriguing and mystifying species that I have come across in any urban fantasy series. The character development is wonderful as well. Samuel has been on the back burner a bit since Mercy became Adam's mate and getting a peek into his very old mind and the strife he is dealing with was great. Although discovering just what a teddy bear Adam can be, and his intense and unconditional love for Mercy was beautiful. Mercy herself grew a great deal in this book as well. She has come to accept and welcome the pack, wants to belong, wants to be involved, all while retaining her independence and unique qualities. I only wish we could have seen her as a coyote more this book. Some of my favorite secondary characters like Zee, Warren, and Ben made appearances this time around and any chance to have them in a scene is totally welcomed. Crazily enough I cannot think of a bad thing to say about this book. Others have thought negatively on the length of the challenge scene which I greatly enjoyed as it revealed so much more about hierarchy in packs, or Mercy's ability to always get out of her insane problems with little consequence (although the climax of Iron Kissed disproves this greatly I think). Yes, the solutions through out these books tend to be a bit convenient but are well thought through, developed, and make sense. All in all, this is the best urban fantasy series out there, and to me all others are weighted against it. I can't wait for the next anything Brigg's puts out! Especially the 3rd installment in the Alpha and Omega series!*****Review of the audio book January 2011:This installment is still one of my favorites of the series. There was so much character development in this book, and a much clearer understanding of Mercy's interaction and place within the pack. Again, I wish there had been more explanation into Sam's developments, but hopefully one day she will write a great short story or something about it! Now I am seriously chomping at the bit to get my hands on book 6!!!