This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books.I really enjoyed this book. Anyone who has been following my reviews probably already knows how much I love this series and this book was no exception. It was so nice to re-visit this wonderful story and spend more time with characters that I have grown to love. This wasn't the most exciting book in the series or my favorite but it was still a very solid read. Mercy has a lot to deal with in this installment. She needs to find the owner of the bookstore where she borrowed a very special book in a previous installment. It seems that he might be in some kind of trouble and someone wants to get his hands on the book. Samuel is in crisis and his wolf is in control. Mercy knows that if he doesn't come around quickly then it will be the end for Samuel so she wants to give him some time to sort things out. There are also a few issues concerning the pack and Mercy's relationship with Adam. Not everyone in the pack is happy to have Mercy as a member. Being a part of a pack is new to Mercy and she isn't used to how easily they can get in her head. Adam and Mercy do love each other and take some steps to get things worked out.My favorite parts of this book were the sections that dealt with the pack and Adam. It is kind of fun after reading the whole series to see how much things have changed over the course of the series. I think that both Mercy and Adam took some major steps in this book to strengthen their relationship and Mercy's place in the pack. The issues with Samuel were also very well done. I really do enjoy his character and he is really in a bad place for much of this book. Lorelei King is the voice of Mercy Thompson. She does such a wonderful job narrating this series that I usually want to move to the next book just as soon as I finish a book. The character's emotions really come across perfectly with her narration and she is able to voice a large number of characters very well. I look forward to listening to this narrator many more times in the future.I would highly recommend this book to others. This is a series that really needs to be read in order since the character relationships are a large part of the story. I look forward to continuing with my re-read of this series very soon.Initial ThoughtsGreat story and the audio is very well done.Source: audible purchase