[slams hand on table] I wanted more GAY.—★—Girl, Serpent, Thorn is an enthrallingly written fantasy drawing inspiration from Persian mythology and Sleeping Beauty. Soraya, the twin sister of the Shah, should be able to walk the streets of her country freely and touch anything without the worry that it will wither away. But for her entire life, she has been cursed with a poisonous touch, with the blood of a div (demon) coursing through her. When a div is captured in a local village, Soraya may find the cure to her curse—or a threat that endangers her family and country.After reading the first few chapters, I was afraid that I might end up disappointed. There is a plot twist—though I’d say it is more like a plot reveal since it wasn’t particularly surprising—and when it happened, I feared that its obviousness would ruin the rest of the story for me. Fortunately, the remainder of the book unfurls deliciously without as much predictability.I flew through this book in a matter of only a few days. I remember staying up late in bed to read this, with only the warm light of my lamp and this immersive, twisting story to keep me company. Something about Bashardoust’s writing is gripping and lends this book a classic fairytale feeling. While I may have liked her previous book, Girls Made of Snow and Glass, more, I think her writing definitely improved in this one and it is utterly transportive.She had read enough stories to know that the princess and the monster were never the same. She had been alone long enough to know which one she was.Soraya was a fascinating character to follow throughout this book. She grapples with her inability to become close with anyone—from a fear that stems both from herself and everyone around her, a fear that she is nothing more than her curse and a blight on her family. Her loneliness became a part of her, as did her feelings of shame and self-loathing, and all of this only contributed to the questionable decisions she made.Honestly, I found myself wanting more from her—perhaps it’s the lady villain lover in me, but I just really would’ve loved to see her give in to the idea that she was a monster and relish in it. But that truly was an issue with my own personal taste, and I also realized that that isn’t the point of her character. Soraya is someone who is learning how to be herself and how to love herself after fearing what it means to be Soraya. And all of this growth happens as she gets closer to a villain that she can actually envision herself becoming, which just makes her development even better: She explores her own monstrosity and reclaims what it means for her after having it defined by everyone her entire life.I also had the same issues with the side characters; I wanted to see more from both the villain and Parvaneh. They certainly didn’t feel two-dimensional and were both interesting characters, and I enjoyed learning more about them and their backgrounds. But for me, there was still something missing from them.Probably my biggest source of dismay was that the romance between Soraya and Parvaneh did not deliver everything I wanted, and I ached for more from it. I think this was due to the false advertising that this would be pretty focused on the f/f romance. While the romance is there (and it is wonderful and lovely and I adore it), it definitely wasn’t as central as I was expecting, and I really wish it had been. I felt the same way with Bashardoust’s previous book, so perhaps it is a stylistic choice of hers to not write too much romance in her books? But I think their relationship would have benefited from more development/scenes regardless—I loved the scenes between them and I simply wanted more sapphic goodness!!She had thought nothing would be more incredible than the simple sensation of touch, but she’d been wrong: more incredible still was the idea that she could be dangerous, all her thorns on display, and that someone would dare to touch her anyway.Even though I don’t think the full potential of this book was reached, I still found it to be a captivating story, and I thought it was a well-done exploration of loneliness, self-loathing, and the impacts of being raised to fear yourself. If you’re looking for an entrancing fantasy that feels like a fairytale, with an antiheroine who goes on a journey to learn and love who she is, this book is for you! Unfortunately, I just wanted a little bit more from it.—★—:: rep :: Persian-coded cast, wlw MC (multi-gender attracted) and LI:: content warnings :: violence, murder/death, imprisonment, war, depictions/mentions of bloodAll quotes are taken from an advance copy and may differ in final publication.