Buddy read with the amazing @Naomi Waters!!! I loved reading this book with you! There was and there was not. A girl living in a castle hidden away like a secret or a treasure. Most people didn’t know about the Shahzadeh, the Shah’s twin sister. And there was a good reason for that, for the girl was cursed. Everything she touched was meant to die, for she was poisonous. I’m so emotional right now. This book means everything to me. As someone who comes from Iran reading a book about my own culture, tradition, and myths was something that I didn’t know I needed in my life until I came across this book. Yes, I have read books about my culture in persian but to read it in a language that is not my mother tongue, knowing that other people are also able to read it and get a glimpse of what my culture is like... that just made me so happy.I know that there are other books written by Persian authors in English but so far non of them have stuck out to me the way this one has.The author has indeed done her research on the mythological aspect of this book. Most of the creatures come from the Shahnameh. And as someone who began reading the Shahnameh at a young age, I can tell you that the myths and the creatures are 100% accurate. The culture representation was my favorite thing about this book and to be honest, that’s the main reason why the moment I opened it, it became my all time favorite.All those festivities, colors and food... they made me so nostalgic. Parvaneh is by far my favorite character. She was so fascinating to read about and I loved her the moment she appeared. I loved how complex her character was. I loved how she willingly sacrificed herself in order to save Soraya’s family. Although, in the end Soraya did come close to being my favorite!The one thing I love about Soraya the most, is that she is unlike other female heroines. She isn’t trained in combat and she isn’t particularly clever. There is just something about her, that although I can’t find the right words to describe it right now, I loved about her.Her character development was my favorite. In the beginning she said that the poison in her veins was a curse and in the end she embraced it.Oh, and did I mention that she is Bisexual?What a queen!The romance was very well done. It wasn’t rushed, it was a slow burn in fact. And I loved every second of reading about Parvaneh and Soraya. This book is by far one of my favorite books with a f|f romance.And Azad...In the end I kinda pitied him to be honest. That’s the thing with this book. Most of the characters are morally gray.Even if he did do some questionable things, I believe that there was still some good in him.