Okay, reviews on this book are very split and I understand why but I LOVED this!! Basically what it comes down to is if you don't like puzzles, complex narrative structures, or books where you have to pay close attention to pick up on what's happening, you will find The Ruin of Kings very frustrating. However, if you (like myself) love puzzles, complex narrative structures, and fun things like snarky and informative footnotes, then you should definitely pick this book up. This is the start of an epic fantasy series filled with political intrigue, magic, power hungry gods, and dangerous prophecies. Book 1 is structured as a report written to a ruler about events that led up to the burning of the capital city. The person who created the report cobbled together transcripts telling the story from two different people, and then added his own commentary through footnotes. (Yay footnotes! I love a good footnote) The main story is told in two timelines from two different narrators while one of them is imprisoned. Kihrin is asked to tell his own story, but he begins halfway into his life. To supplement, Talon (a mimic with the ability to eat people and magically assume their identities and memories) tells his earlier history for him, from the perspective of the people she has killed. The chapters alternate between them until eventually the timelines intersect. If this sounds complicated, it kind of is but I thought it was a lot of fun, and an interesting way to hear the story because the reader sometimes learns important information from older Kihrin that younger Kihrin doesn't know yet. You do have to pay attention because there are three mechanisms for magical body swapping in this book.1. Mimics can take on the form of other people, especially if they have killed and consumed that person.2. There is a magic stone necklace. When the owner of it is killed, their soul is switched with that of their killer, thereby keeping them alive, but moving them to another body.3. Reincarnation. Some people are able to remember their past livesProbably you will read this review and either think "omg, no thank you! That sounds like way too much work." or think "Wow, that sounds really cool and interesting! I need to read this." Either way, you're welcome! I will say, if you are an audiobook person you may want to blend your reading with audio and physical. There are three different narrators (including one for the footnotes) which probably helps with keeping the different perspectives straight.I thoroughly enjoyed it and want to continue with the series. It's the kind of book that in my opinion is very re-readable because there are so many little details and easter eggs scattered throughout. I have some theories about the world and what's going on and am curious to see how much of it is accurate. Thanks to Tor for providing me with a copy for review! All opinions are my own.Content warnings include enslavement (there is a lot of this throughout), murder, torture, sexual assault (off-page), physical & verbal child abuse (on page), drugging, probably other things as well.