This is an odd one. Sometimes I wanted to give up on it, and sometimes I was totally hooked. If you're looking for a really detailed fantasy with a sprawling epic world with huge intrigue and schemes, then here you go. This one would be great to read with a friend, just to get a grip on some of the twists. I found myself really wanting to talk things over.The main story is standard epic fantasy stuff at this point but on a grandiose scale, with wizards, gods, dragons, brain-eating monsters, demons, magic soul crystals, and just so much scheming.What's unique is the framing. The book is told in a back and forth, with one story told by protagonist Kihrin in the first person and the other story in a third person voice also about Kihrin (but often through other points of view). There are also intrusive footnotes from another character. The chapters are relatively short, so at first the back and forth switch with footnotes full of extra world building info was a hard mix for me to follow.By the end, I felt like the switching worked. I actually think it's a big accomplishment here, but I can't imagine other writers using the same format.I have mixed feelings about the politics? Slavery is a constant presence here, in all of its horrors. That led to a good focus on consent, and giving consent was a major theme in the book. On top of that, there were some pretty minor gestures to gender politics (a historical racial thing, an openly bi character, and a closeted character) that were ok but could have been more thoroughly developed in this fantasy setting.I'm a little less comfortable with how race was treated in the book. There are multiple intermixing races, as is usual in fantasy these days, but although skin color wasn't usually a big factor in the world of the story, the author always made sure we knew exactly what color everyone was, often repeating their skin color on every reintroduction. I think overall it felt like the author was trying their best to do some good here and to be diverse by making sure we don't assume everyone is some white Tolkien elf or human, so I'm giving it a pass. But I dunno. We don't see the actual cultures of people and places or get to understand heritage, except for how skin color reflects hereditary. On the other hand, there was one scary race with poison spikes under their arms, so that was cool at least?