"I did not come here to win," Lan whispered, smiling. "I came here to kill you. Death is lighter than a feather."  I was blown away by the whole book. It was more brutal and heartbreaking than I have expected. I honestly didn't think that Jordan will have the guts to kill so many important characters. Two deaths especially crushed me. A lot of astonishing twists were in the game and some of them were even fatal. I thought Tarmon Gai'don will last like 30 pages, but nope, it lasted the entire book. The ending wasn't what I thought it'd be, but I liked it anyway. All major questions are answered, all storylines got its conclusions. It may not be the conclusion you'd want since the climax was left quite open - instead of an end, we got a new beginning. I think Jordan wanted readers to imagine on their own how life goes on after the Last Battle. The Last Battle was fought on four fronts: Shayol Ghul, Tarwin's Gap, Caemlyn and Kandor with four generals as their leaders: Rodel Ituralde, Gareth Bryne, Agelmar Jagad and Davram Bashere. After a while, Mat Cauthon takes matters into his own hands and starts calling the shots as he moved the battles to only one front - Fields of Merrilor. On the other side, Demandred commands the military of the Shadow. We finally find out where he has been hiding all along and it's without a doubt the best twist in the whole series. There was a lot of sass, actual exchange of affection between all main characters, which is something we never had. Aes Sedai were fighting side by side with Asha'mans and Seanchans. It's not about whether you like some characters more than others, it's all about how brave and strong they were, and willing to fight for their cause. Still, I wish epilogue was longer and it bothers me that I don't know all the answers.Rand al'Thor, Dragon Reborn, farm boy who became king and a tragic hero. A hero who couldn't let others be heroes because of his guilty conscience. A fragile soul who thought he could hold anxiety of the whole world on his shoulders. A stubborn man with trust issues. Chronically tired and obsolete of his destiny, he never stopped fighting even when he didn't know what he was fighting for. His confrontation with the Dark One showed that he's a bigger man than Lews Therin ever was. Mat Cauthon, better known as light of my life, was cheeky and charismatic fox who became the biggest general since the Age of Legends. He was rude, didn't respect any authority and kept "trying" to run away from responsibilities. His "attempts" to run away were always just big talk. He was never there when you were looking for him, but he'd always appear just in time when you needed him the most. If he didn't do his part of the job, Rand's efforts in Shayol Ghul would've been meaningless. My favorite character in the series, maybe my favorite character ever.Perrin Aybara, I grew to like him only after the 13th book. Arguably, he was the best leader among all three Ta'verens. Honorable, careful, direct and durable - he deserved better storylines. Sadly, he was always holding onto his wife's skirt. He had the most important character development, among all main characters, because he finally learned on his mistakes. He accepted his inner wolf and obligation to be by Rand's side despite what Faile thinks of it. He defeated one Forsaken even Rand couldn't take down.Egwene al'Vere, queen of my heart, my favorite female character ever, brave lioness with iron spine, the righteous leader. From book 1, she has been falling into her own trap of seeing only what she wants to see. Only in the last three books she seemed to adjust a bit. Her character development was extraordinary and probably the most compelling amongst all main characters. She became the most powerful women in the world and yet, she never thought of abusing her power. Her sacrifice helped Mat restore balance of the battle. Nynaeve al'Meara, the worst Aes Sedai in the world which makes her THE BEST Aes Sedai possible. She didn't know how to handle her anger, she never let other Aes Sedai change who she really is. She's bold, chatty, apprehensive, caring and gets quite annoying with her "know-it-all" attitude, just like all females in the series. She never doubted Rand's decisions when everyone else did and, in a way, she was the only one besides Min who saved his soul. Elayne Trakand, assumptive blondie who couldn't accept any other opinion but her own. I never understood Jordan's fascination with her. Yes, she's wise and principled queen, but all that she's done, it would've been equally effective with her being in the background. I may be a little subjective when it comes to her because I disliked her since the beginning and she gave me no reason to change my mind. She's strenuous, obnoxious and vexatious. Nonetheless, it is true that she was the heart of the Last Battle. Gavin Trakand, stupid little boy who I sympathise with despite all dumb decisions he has made throughout entire series. He's my favorite male character after Mat and Rand, and it's so hard to love him since he makes one fatal mistake after another. He has always had his inner moral demons and they have always gotten the best of him and when it was important the most I thought he'd finally change, at least for Egwene, but it didn't happen. He couldn't accept he's not the hero of the story, that he's job was to stay in the shadow of his sister, even though he was raised to do that. He had one job in the Last Battle and he didn't fulfil it. Galad Damodred, the guy who saw the world in black and white and always insensibly told the truth. He surprised me the most because I didn't care for his well-being until he got his own POV. Most of the time, he seems flat and shallow and I still can't decide whether it's true or not. He gave a new life to White Cloaks and never let his vanity take the best of him. Nevertheless, he never acted on genuine emotion. I don't know, even his affection for Berelain looked superficial. Siuan Sanche, not a very good Amirlin, but a perfect counselor for the new one. She was penetrating, durable and stiff, but annoying as hell in many occasions, which was repetitive characteristic OF ALL FEMALE CHARACTERS. Jordan never did well his homework in studying how women think and act. Gareth Bryne, trustworthy general, who comprehended promises as more important substance than air or water. He never let his anger, queens nor any powerful women define him. He did well in Tarmon Gai'don as much as he could. Still, I was never particularly consumed by him, not even in the final instalment. Androl, Asha'man who isn't strong with the One Power, but still can teach Aes Sedai how to lead. Even when he saw no way out, he kept fighting. He saved the Black Tower with pure strength of his will and incredible leadership skills. He's the most satisfying surprise in the whole book and that says a lot. al'Lan Mandragoran, Dai Shan, king of fallen country who irritatingly persisted in having a death wish and not letting anyone save him. Stubborn, cold and emotional wreck, our dark knight. As he said himself, Rand and Nynaeve brought him back to life. it was so gratifying to see him happy, for once. Pevara Tazanovni broke all prejudices about Red Adjah and probably even Aes Sedai in general. She showed everything other Aes Sedai wanted to stay hidden - compassion, laughter, spark in her eyes, temper, sense of humor. I'd give her Amirlin Seat. She was part of the union between Asha'mans and Aes Sedai. Tuon is a perplexed one. I have mixed feelings towards her. Basically, I hate everything Seanchan represents, but she confuses me because she really wants to bring justice. Well, justice as she sees it. She could take care of herself and she definitely is witty, but she could be so narrow-minded, sometimes. Min Farshaw served no purpose other than being a love interest for Rand. That's all she ever was. Her existence finally stopped being pointless throughout the second half of this book. Yes, she kept Rand partially sane when he went dark, but I wanted to see who she really is WITHOUT HIM, because even with him, she's really bland. Aviendha was interesting in the start, unfortunately she has fallen to monotony of Jordan's vision of how females behave. She was brave in the Last Battle, her showdown with particular Forsaken was quite impressive. She was still better than other Wise Ones and her temper made her appear more human. Faile Bashere was never one of my favorites. Truth be told I disliked her, just like Elayne, from the start. She was too obstinate and full of secrets. I also didn't like how she tried to keep Perrin away from Rand and Mat as much as possible. She couldn't accept that Perrin might care for SOMEONE ELSE WHO ISN'T HER. Moiraine Damodred, a women without whom Dragon Reborn would be lost. Her ability to see into one's soul was sometimes excruciating and her secrets were annoying, but she was one of the few who cared deeply for Rand in spite of who he was. Even Egwene in latter books saw him rather as Dragon Reborn, but Moiraine never made that mistake. Talmanes Delovinde finally got his own POV and it was intense. He was so persistent and brave, and besides Thom, the biggest troll in the series who made jokes during the worst situations. I laughed my ass of every time he teased Mat and the two of them truly make a great team. Talmanes was the refreshment this series needed. Olver is a part of the second biggest twist in this book. He may be only 10 years old but he fought like he was Mat himself. His fairy tales finally had come true and for once he saved Mat. Mat's maybe not his father by blood, but they surely share something familial. Usually, I'm not interested in child characters, but Olver won me over since the first time he appeared. Cadsuane Melaidhrin was the one I hated the most. I sympathised more with some of the Forsaken than with her. I still can't understand her logic in wanting to break Rand only to "help him laugh and cry again". I still don't see how she had any impact on him except to make him more frustrated and angry through humiliation. One of the most glorious scenes in the Last Battle was with Lan as the leading actor. He did something that three men before him failed. Even though, he hid it for so long, his will to live prevailed. Also, LAN SMILED. And we know that Nynaeve is the only one who gets his smiles, so this made the scene even more spectacular. “I have never known anyone else," Egwene said to him, "who will work so hard to avoid hard work, Matrim Cauthon.” Childhood friends are my obsession. “You are as eloquent as ever, Mat," Egwene said dryly. "Do you still have your pet fox?" "I do," Mat said. "He's snuggled up nice and warm.”Mat and Egwene had a few funny encounters. I adore the fact that Mat succeeds to get under everyone's skin within seconds. He never lost his positive energy, but honestly I wish that sometimes he simply hung back. He gave me a few heart attacks. I understand that he desperately wants to save everyone, but sometimes he does more damage than good.  “The Empress will follow where you go," she said. "So she will," Mat said. "As I'll follow where she goes, I suppose. I hope that doesn't lead us in too many circles.”Throughout the book, I went from tears to hysterical laughter, thanks to the tragedy of the Last Battle and Mat's one liners. While he always had a great sense of humor, in this book he was a true comic relief without losing his integrity or compelling characterisation. Like always, his POVs were the funniest. “When you saw me with a dagger in hand - as if to throw at you - you didn't call for your guards. You didn't fear I was here to kill you. You looked over your shoulder to see what I was aiming at. That's the most loving gesture I think a man could receive from a woman. Unless you'd like to sit on my knee for a while...” I believe that Tuon and Mat are good together. He would've died of boredom if he got anything less life-threatening. Also, all my doubts that she doesn't genuinely care for him are now gone. In this book, she has obviously shown how important he is to her, especially through fighting with her inner demons.  “I have lived for four centures," he said. "Perhaps I am still a youth, in that all of us are, compared to the timeless age of the Wheel itself. That said, I am one of the oldest people in existence." Moiraine smiled. "Very nice. Does that work on the others?" He hesitated. Then, oddly, he found himself grinning. "It worked pretty well on Cadsuane."  Words can't describe how much I have missed Moiraine. Arguably, she understands Rand better than anyone. Once upon a time, he hated that fact, but now he cherishes it. Their moments since the beginning of the series are priceless and I am so glad I had a chance to have a few more of them before the journey ended.  "There's an odd thing about disease I once heard, Fain," Matrim Cauthon whispered. "Once you catch a disease and survive, you can't get it again.”  Yup, if I didn't die right there, I'll probably live for the next 100 years because now nothing can break me. Mat can get a bit careless because in his mind if he says he wants to stay away from trouble it means he'll get in the first battle lines. That fact gave me numerous heart attacks over the series.  The Seanchan in the room seemed stunned that Mat had suddenly stripped to the waist. He did not see why, They had servants that wore much less. Light, but they did. "I'm tempted to do the same as you," Min muttered, grabbing the front of her dress. Mat froze, then sputtered. He must have swallowed a fly or something. "Burn me," he said, throwing on the shirt he dug out of the bundle. "I'll give you a hundred Tar Valon marks if you do it, just so I can tell the story."  Such a waste Mat and Min didn't have more scenes. He bring her humorous side and we need ANYTHING that can make Min at least seem like a three-dimensional character. Truth be told, Mat makes everything and everyone fun. If it weren't for him and Egwene, I would probably give up on the series after book 8 or 9.I have few complaints - no real interaction between Lan and Moiraine (I think we deserved at least one page), no real interaction between Lan and Nynaeve and no real interaction between all three ta'verens. Also, I expected that Galad and Rand will finally meet. Cadsuane, Alana and Alivia served no real purpose and the series could've gone easily without them and make space for meaningful conversation between main characters. Is it weird that I really like Moridin, but couldn't care less for Ishamael? I kinda felt sorry for Moridin. I think his guilty conscience made him mad. He wanted to find peace but in the wrong way. Being such a compelling antagonist, without a doubt he gave me more chills than The Dark One himself.