I really wanted to give this book five stars, and if I had stopped reading about halfway through, I might have. As I went on, though, some little things that I had glossed over as I devoured the book started to weigh heavier and heavier on me, and in the end, I can't give it more than 2 stars. On TaimandredDemandred: What a waste.Okay, yes, Shara was Chekov's Gun. I don't necessarily have a problem with them showing up to fight in the Last Battle, because we knew they were out there, but we had such sketchy knowledge of them that all the scenes with them feel like they happened BECAUSE PLOT rather than because of any buildup earlier in the series.I mean, Bao the Wyld? The prophecies? These are mentioned in the book, but since we had literally no hints about them previously they don't actually matter. Getting the Aiel to follow Rand took multiple books of set up and still ended up with some rough spots, but we're supposed to accept Demandred at the head of the Sharans fighting for the Shadow in the span of a few pages. Honestly, he could have shown up leading an army of cats from the moon and it would have had roughly the same effect.Well, maybe wolves from the moon. At least the fact that wolves can talk was previously established.Also, the racist overtones of having the mysterious and unknowable people from the east who have a massively hierarchical society, are totally untrustworthy, and are fanatically devoted to their leaders arriving in hordes to destroy all that is good are kind of right up there in your face. I know Tolkien did it too, but come on.The scene with Rand and Roedran of Murandy felt like it was only in there because that was one of the main theories of where Demandred was. He shows up, Rand stares at him all confused, and then he's never seen again. Finally, this was Demandred? The guy who said: 
He was a general, a great general, but generals did not have to fight alongside the men they commanded! 
in Winter's Heart? The guy who said: "So it seems he must be killed after all," Demandred said. Hiding his satisfaction was not easy. Rand al’Thor or Lews Therin Telamon, he would rest easier when the fellow was dead.
Does that sound like the revenge-obsessed homicidal maniac who's ready to throw the entire war just to kill Rand? Demandred's hate is mentioned previously, but it seems like it was the only part of his character that was actually kept. You could honestly replace Demandred with a giant robot who ran around broadcasting "LEWS THE-RIN! LEWS THE-RIN!" and blowing up the good guys with lasers at the head of his army of terminators and other than the WTF factor, you wouldn't have to change the structure of the story at all.Well, I guess a giant robot would have a hard time fighting three duels that were essentially the same duel. And Demandred saying Gawyn was worse than Galad even though Gawyn was enhanced by multiple bloodknife rings? That's just cold.Getting taken out by Lan wasn't bad, other than the repetitiousness of the dueling, but setting it up to look like Lan died and then having him suddenly be alive was a cop out. Lan was the one who told Rand about Sheathing the Sword. Lan has spent the entire series expecting to die. Then again, after Galad "clearly" got his head cut off and then suddenly lived because plot, I guess I shouldn't have expected anything else.Finally, here's what should have happened. Demandred thought Mat was Rand in disguise. He should have fought Gawyn, and maybe Galad, and then come after Mat personally and demanded a duel, while mocking Mat for using his ashandarei. And then: “Who was the greatest blademaster of all time?’From the throats of dozens of students came a massed bellow. “Jearom, Gaidin!”“Yes!” Hammar shouted, turning to make sure all heard. “During his lifetime, Jearom fought over ten thousand times, in battle and single combat. He was defeated once. By a farmer with a quarterstaff! Remember that. Remember what you just saw.”-The Dragon Reborn

And that's how Demandred should have died.Also, I still maintained that Taim was Demandred, Jordan changed it when people guessed, and that's why Taim has essentially nothing to do in the Last Battle.On the other hand, the scenes with Shendla were actually kind of bittersweet--a taste of what might have happened if Demandred hadn't let his envy consume him. Those were very brief, but well done.On the battle in the Bore: The Dark One won."What?" you're saying, "No he didn't. He didn't destroy the world!"Yes, but the Light had the possibility for total victory. They could have destroyed the Dark One, preventing the cycle from repeating itself, preventing potentially billions of needless deaths and the literal destruction of the world or end of all hope for everyone forever, and Rand didn't do it because the Dark One tricked him.Rand's vision of a world without the Dark One is shown as flawed, because the people there lack free will. Without the Dark One providing the possibility of choice, we are told, there is no ability for humans to make meaningful choices, thus making them essentially robots without any real understanding of good or evil.Except this is incredibly stupid because Shadar Logoth exists.Way back in The Eye of the World, we're shown an example of human evil. Shadow Logoth is specifically called out as an example of how bad humans can be to each other even in the absence of the Dark One. They hated the Shadow so much that they were willing to do anything to defeat it, and it eventually caused their ruin.Even if you ignore Shadar Logoth, Verin mentions the Whitecloaks as an example of terrible people:The Children are very nearly as vile as men can be, short of Darkfriends, but they are not Darkfriends.-The Shadow Rising

So it's clearly established that the Dark One is not the source of all evil like Rand seems to think he is.Furthermore, the balance between good and evil is an inherently facile concept. Law and chaos in conflict at least makes sense, because you can conceive of too much law (unending stasis where nothing changes or grows) and too much chaos (eternal flux where nothing is certain), but what does too much good even mean? It reminds me of the Dragonlance backstory, where they show the Kingpriest of Istar as an example of the dangers of too much "good" because of his actions. Except if you told any random person that the ruler of a country was having his officials randomly read people's minds and execute them for crimes they hadn't committed yet, I'm pretty sure that they wouldn't call that good. Just the opposite, I expect. In The Wheel of Time, the Dark One is consistently depicted as a force of supernatural evil. I'm using supernatural here in the literal sense of "outside the natural order." Even in the Age of Legends, there were still criminals. Even in the Age of Legends, there was still strife. Hell, Rand specifically says that the paradise probably would have ended in war eventually because people are people and you can't really change that. Making the Dark One the source of all evil doesn't just contradict what has gone before, it means the characters in the series aren't actually humans. They're meat puppets who only behave as though they had a real choice because of the supernatural influence of a literal evil deity.And the Dark One doesn't offer a choice anyway! The only way we've ever seen a darkfriend redeemed is through death, and that almost never happens. Otherwise, all the other darkfriends keep mentioning that they want to get out, but they can't because the Dark One is too strong, or too insistent, or can find them anywhere, or whatever. Basically, it's free will but with an inevitable downward tilt. And admittedly, that does fit what I wrote about in my Towers of Midnight review about how the world is inevitably doomed, but it hardly fits the definition of free will if the choice only goes one way.Speaking of that inevitability, it means that not only has Rand doomed the world, he's doomed everyone he knows to eventual horrific eternal suffering in hell, given sufficient passing of time. Nice job, "savior"!And ignoring all that, you're trying to tell me that in a series that has been about the inexorable march of destiny from day 1, a series that has the Prophecies of the Dragon, the Foretelling, forcibly Turning channelers to the Shadow, and Min Farshaw, a series where one of the most well-known sayings among fans is "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills"...the real conflict is about free will!?It's just bad. That's the bottom line.On the other hand, the actual sealing of the Bore was good. Callandor's flaw, the women at Shayol Ghul, the Dragon needing Callandor even though the Choedan Kal exists...all of that had plenty of setup over the course of multiple books and was very well executed. Ignoring all the context, the end of the Last Battle was good.On Padan Fain: That's it? After all those books of buildup, he just goes down like a chump at the end without really doing anything?On the other hand, this is The Wheel of Time. He's not even in the top ten of characters who get built up only to go down like a chump.To Padan Fain! He died as he lived!Like a chump.On Mat: The scene with Rand and Mat trying to one-up each other really crystallized for me how much Sanderson doesn't get Mat. Here's the thing. He writes Mat like Mat's part of a comedy team. Like Mat's the prankster, or the funny man. That's different than Jordan's Mat. Jordan's Mat is part of a comedy team, but he's not the funny man, he's the straight man. The Pattern itself is the funny man.On the usage of the One Power: All the new applications for gateways were obviously Sanderson's influence. He's pretty well known--and with good reason--for meticulously thinking through the capabilities and limitations of the magic systems he designs for his own books, so all the different things that the channelers do with gateways do make sense, but it doesn't seem like the kind of thing Jordan would have written. Nonetheless, as a tabletop gamer, I appreciated that the characters actually did the kinds of things I'd always wondered why they never did.On the other hand, it never really felt like there were a lot of channelers around. There should have been hundreds of Aes Sedai, thousands of Wise Ones, hundreds of Windfinders, damane, the several dozen non-evil Asha'man, etc., vs. hundreds of Dreadlords and Ayyad, but the impression I got was there were a few dozen people on each side. I get that Sanderson wanted to maintain the impression that the Light was in huge trouble without wanting to overwhelm them, but it went a bit far.Also, Demandred didn't do all that much for having a stupid-powerful sa'angreal and being linked in a full circle. Sure, he was killing tons of regular troops, but so did the random Black Ajah sisters who kidnapped Elayne, and there were...what, seven of them? Androl (Sanderon's pet character) was far more clever with the "gateway into Dragonmount" trick than Demandred was with his laser blasts. Based on what we saw just Rand do with Callandor against the Shadow in the Stone of Tear, or against the Seanchan in Altara, Demandred should have been able to wave a hand and blow up the entire army of the Light.Of course, that would have ended the book right there, so instead Demandred gets an Idiot Ball so big he has to carry it around on his back like Atlas.A Memory of Light was definitely a page-turner, but it still felt like a lot of it was just padding. The Last Battle chapter is 175 pages long and bounces repeatedly along multiple viewpoints, but that and a lot of the previous chapters kind of come down to: trollocs attack, good guys defend, something unexpected and usually bad happens, good guys are set back and must regroup, repeat for 600 pages. A lot of the page-turning devolves to trying to get to the next section where something happens to the characters you care about but not moving too fast to accidentally skip a pivotal event. I think the book was maybe a third too long, but at this point books that are too long as kind of a tradition with The Wheel of Time, so while I didn't like it, at least I was used to it.So after all that, what did I like? Well, Graendal's plot against the Light was very good and was foreshadowed multiple books ago. Perrin's tasks in the wolf dream were neat, and there were a few short scenes that I thought were far, far better than most of the surrounding material: Thom guarding the way into Shayol Ghul or the gateway to Hinderstap, for example.As an aside, what do trollocs eat? (Yeah, I know, "people." ha ha) I mean, there are millions of them showing up everywhere, they haven't been raiding out of the Borderlands for about nine months prior to the Last Battle, and they seem to be primarily carnivorous, so I doubt anyone is growing crops for them in the Blight even if we didn't know that a lot of the life in the Blight will kill trollocs just as readily as it will anyone else. This is always a problem in fantasy stories with a generically evil monstrous race, because they need to live in marginal land that no one else wants while simultaneously being enough of a threat from numbers to overwhelm the good guys, but there were so many of them here that it bothered me more than it usually does.In the end, A Memory of Light is like an elaborate house of cards. It looks incredibly intricate and beautiful from a distance, but once I stepped in to take a closer look, it all fell apart. It is not the ending, for there are no endings to the turnings of the Wheel of Time, but it is an ending, and honestly I think the series might have been better off without it.Edit: Having finally read "River of Souls," I can now comment on that too. And mostly of what I can say is that I'm glad it was left out. Not because it was bad, because it wasn't, but because it would have made the out-of-nowhere problems of Shara much, much bigger. "River of Souls" hints at probably an entire trilogy's worth of material that Demandred was getting up to in Shara while the other events were going on, and in a series that's so based on foreshadowing and hints being dropped that are picked up ten books later, "River of Souls" is about how a kinds of things happened that the reader had no idea about and will never get to hear. Explaining Bao the Wyld is all well and good, but not when it opens up so many other questions. I'm glad I read it now, disconnected from my read-through of the series, because if anything it would have made me like the Sharan plotline even less than I ended up doing.Also, I'm still unable to avoid a smirk whenever I read the word Bao. Previous Review: Towers of Midnight.