"Like the unfettered dawn shall he blind us, and burn us, yet shall the Dragon Reborn confront the Shadow at the Last Battle, and his blood shall give us the Light. Let tears flow, O ye people of the world. Weep for your salvation!"In the depths of the Blight, the armies of the Dark One are marshalling their power. In the Westlands, Rand al’Thor and his allies are preparing for the coming storm. The Last Battle looms above all, and the Dragon Reborn prepares to face the full strength of Shai’tan and defeat the Shadow one last time…I must admit something that might come as a shock to most of you: When I finished A Memory of Light, it was probably my least favourite Wheel of Time book. And that is not simply because the series ends here, or because I was unhappy with how things turned out (though I was). It was for a variety of reasons.Now, I had written two long paragraphs where I heavily criticised the book for those reasons. Partly because I now disagree with myself, and partly because I choose to ignore the book’s flaws, those paragraphs have now mysteriously disappeared, never to be seen again. Suffice it to say that the book could have finished off in a better way, but that what we have is satisfying enough.And of course, this is Wheel of Time. I don’t really care about what I didn’t like. I want to talk about what I loved instead.So why was this a satisfying conclusion? There are seven reasons for that, four or which are scenes or details in the book. The fifth is the best title of any fantasy book ever. The sixth is the fact that this is a Wheel of Time book and despite some minor disappointment, this is the ending to my favourite fantasy series of all time. The seventh is the fact that this is another of those books that I just love more and more for each moment that passes after having finished it.As for those four scenes, one is Rand’s gathering of all the factions and nations of the world early in the book, simply because of the arrival of one single very important character. The other three are in the epilogue. And the epilogue, the only chapter in the book to be written single-handedly by Robert Jordan, is the crowning glory of A Memory of Light and one of the best chapters in the whole series. It contains arguably the most emotional scene in the series. It contains an absodamnlutely perfect ending paragraph which makes you think “But of course it ends like that!” And after said paragraph, it contains a repetition of my favourite non-Tolkien fantasy quote. I am eternally grateful to Jordan for using that quote to end the series, and I will also use it to end my last Wheel of Time review…
And it came to pass in those days, as it had come before and would come again, that the Dark lay heavy on the land and weighed down the hearts of men, and the green things failed, and hope died. And men cried out to the Creator, saying, O Light of the Heavens, Light of the World, let the Promised One be born of the mountain, according to the prophecies, as he was in ages past and will be in ages to come. Let the Prince of the Morning sing to the land that green things will grow and the valleys give forth lambs. Let the arm of the Lord of the Dawn shelter us from the Dark, and the great sword of justice defend us. Let the Dragon ride again on the winds of time.