Let us consider Chel Vanin, everyone's favorite fat former horse thief. Here's what I know about him:1. He's fat.2. He's a former horse thief and excellent scout.3. You'd never think he could sneak or ride a horse as well as he can, because he's so fat. How do I know this? Because I've been told this at his every appearance in, I think, seven books. This, all of this, and no more than this. Let's check in on Vanin in A Memory of Light. First, other members of the Band of the Red Hand tease him for being so damned fat. Then, when Faile asks Harnan about him, "Vanin?" Harnan said from horseback. "Good fellow. He can chew your ear off griping at times, my Lady, but don't let that sour you. He's our best scout.""I can't imagine how," she said. "I mean, he can't move quickly or quietly with that bulk, can he?"Thus ends the saga of Chel Vanin.================================On to the cover art. Wow! I've been really hard on it throughout the series, harping on most of the covers in my reviews. It's great to see that the artist, Darrell K. Sweet, finally, finally got one of the characters right. This, possibly his best cover ever, really makes up for all the—Wait, what? . . . He died? This is by someone else? . . . Oh. Well, never mind then. ================================This, even more than the two prior books, feels 100% like Brandon Sanderson's book. Yes, James Oliver Rigney Jr., RIP, created this world, the characters, set the general direction for how he wanted things to turn out, and wrote most of the epilogue prior to his death. But it took Sanderson's herculean effort to get us from the end of Knife of Dreams to this point in just three books. I remain convinced that, had Jordan remained in good health, we would not see the end of this series until book #20, and at his rate of output for his last several books, that would mean that, as of the time I am writing this in the year 2022, it would still not be finished. Even considering just this book, I don't see Jordan providing a comparable blistering pace, maintaining the energy that carried us through the Last Battle, and I don't mean just the >80,000 word chapter that bears that title. It might have been a satisfying finish regardless, but it would have been very different. I struggled with the Sanderson books because of the pains he evidently had to take, to progress the story and characters as he did to get everything to the point this book required. He did this while honouring and respecting everything Jordan had done, but for me it simultaneously highlighted the mess of story elements that had to be cleaned up and given their final thrust. So yes, this is all thanks to Sanderson's effort. Jordan left notes for how he wanted things to end up. He didn't do any of the work on how to get there. As tremendous as this book was, it wasn't all completely stupendous. There was a very Sanderson-esque quirk to the anticipated all-parties conference held in the Field of Merrilor. It was how all the world's leaders got together and quickly decided a new way to govern the world, like first year poli-sci students getting together at the bar and settling on the best form of government if only everyone would listen to them. This is at least an early Sanderson habit that I recognized from Elantris and the first Mistborn trilogy; I have not yet read his later books for adults. This wasn't a terrible scene, and it wasn't achieved without debate, but I found the ease and comprehensiveness of its resolution a bit silly. This is fine. There was another irritating thing, not a Sanderson-specific thing, which dragged on too long. For a good 200+ pages of the book, the 'Great Generals' on four fronts  started making mistakes . It was painfully obvious what was happening, and the cause of it was obvious to the reader also, so I spent those 200 pages just waiting for everyone in-book to figure it out. This was just a slight damper, and somehow I got through it intact.But on the whole, these were minor detractions from a terrific, awesome Wheel of Time book. The Last Battle, it was tremendous, exhausting, and worth every moment. Sanderson gave every character their due, including several that could have easily been left forgotten. I can't think of any loose ends, any worldbuilding elements or themes abandoned, any character on either side that didn't have their time to shine. Some of the resolutions that came after 'The Last Battle' chapter were a bit sillier, but necessary. There were only three major bits that I remembered from my first and only prior reading of this book. By the time these last co-authored releases came out, I had given up my prior habit of re-reading to 'catch back up', a common practice but one that this series in particular seemed to demand. The first remembered bit involved creative use of gateways, and featured a character that, while named in Winter's Heart, was not actually a definable character until Sanderson made him one in the last 100 pages of Towers of Midnight. When the most memorable part of a book requires material that Sanderson had to make out of whole cloth, it doesn't reflect well on the rest of the series. My second remembrance was the series of swordfights with a big bad and how the last one resolved. The third thing I remembered was that I completely forgot what a certain character's deal was by the time he showed up, in the final, critical movement of the battle for all existence. This person was Padan Fain. Because I remembered forgetting him, I forced myself to pay close attention to him during my series re-read. This revealed to me why I had forgotten him; after a major role in the first two books, he spent the next 12 books (23 years) jumping out for three pages, once every two to three books, to shout BOOGA BOOGA BOO then disappearing again. So, good job there, Jordan. I particularly enjoyed Sanderson's treatment of Perrin and Faile. He accomplished this by keeping them apart as much as possible for all of the last three books. By taking the characters away from their relationship, they were shockingly tolerable. One scene was sorely lacking from the book; Lan and Moiraine's reunion. We deserved that moment. Their bond was not inconsequential, and to have Moiraine return from the dead (not dead) and deny us a fraught reunion scene was almost unforgivable. I'm convinced that Sanderson simply had no idea how to write this scene, so the event was glossed over. In a lesser but similar vein, we really needed a Moiraine-meets-New-Moiraine (a.k.a. Cadsuane) scene too. That's just about my full set of commentary on this book. I'm giving it a solid 4.5 stars, rounded up out of relief that I'm finished re-reading the series, rounded down because having to feel relief at this is not a positive thing, rounded up because of the tremendous work Sanderson did to make something worthy out of what he was given, rounded down just because of all of Crossroads of Twilight, and rounded up again because of one very special character, the absolute star of this book, the one character from way back in The Eye of the World who was the real reason any Light and life remained standing by the end. It's not Rand. It's not Mat. It's not Perrin. It's not Egwene. It's not Nynaeve. It's not Moiraine of Lan. It's not Thom. It's not Elayne. It sure as hell isn't Gawyn or Galad. It's not Loial or Min. It's not Tam, Basel Gill, Morgase, Gareth Bryne, or even Else Grinwell. No, it's  Bela. Goddamn I love that horse.I never, ever want to read this series again.