The Gilded Wolves was so enthralling. It has; heists, found-family, freaking awesome lovable characters, genius plot, unique world-building, and an ending that will leave you staring into the void. Okay, so first of all let me gush about Enrique. Who doesn't love his sarcasm, right? and he's half-Filipino and half-Spanish and I'm Filipino and asdfghjksks. Excuse muah as I fangirl and obsess over him because clearly, he's now on top of my book-boyfriends list. “If you’re furious, let it be fuel.”1889, Paris. Severin is the rightful heir to the House Vanth but his Patriarch status was denied. Now, a perfect chance comes to reclaim his inheritance. With the help of his band of unlikely experts, these six main characters plot a heist, a scheme, a risk, and an exploration to get back what's theirs. The plot was so engrossing that I wouldn't want to stop reading. This book reminded me so much of Six of Crows. They both have similarities and I can't stop comparing them in a good way. And I love both of them, do you really want me to choose between these two?! The world-building, setting, and magic system were all unique and beautiful. Set around the 1880s where magic exists in the fantastical form of forging. I like the writing style as well, the flashbacks from the different perspectives of the characters were smooth. There were a lot of times I was confused like when weird stuff started happening ha ha. Though, thank the gods of confusion, my puzzled mind wasn't a hindrance to me enjoying this book. Now, *drum rolls* the NUMBER ONE thing I really loved here was the diverse representations of these worth-to-fall-in-love-for characters! Enrique. A sarcastic, sassy, witty, history nerd, smart, bi half-Filipino and half-Spanish that I dearly love! I always looked forward to reading his chapters. Also, some of the references mentioned like Jose Rizal, La Solidaridad, etc. were known to me, seems like I actually learned some things from my history lessons after all.😏 There's so much more to love about him honestly. Zofia, a Polish and Jewish, socially awkward, smart, badass mathematician. Aaaah I love her too and her chapters were also the ones I highly looked forward to!Hypnos, the beautiful heir of House Nyx, and an extremely fun character of color (I'm very thankful for his last chapter). I thought he would betray the gang but omg when he didn't, it just made me like him much more. Ok. Ok. It was so difficult to choose. b u t. I ship Zorique. Just imagine, they have chemistry and would be so adorable together, these two geniuses, talking about nerdy stuff and teaming up together on solving puzzles and riddles (istg if they aren't endgame). I like Enrique and Hypnos too (when they both [], I was squealing!) and also Laila and Severin, but my favorite ship is absolutely Zorique. my mind doesn't need changing. Hypnos, Enrique, and Zofia (credits)Severin, the intelligent leader of the group who loves to chew on cloves. He gave me deep Kaz vibes, ngl. He also has rendered an equal oath to all of his friends whom he treats like family.Laila, a caring, loving, hot friend with talents to read objects, dance gracefully, bake cookies, and make severin gapes, she also has secrets. Tristan, nature friendly boy who cares for his tarantula, plants and friends. He's the youngest of the group and I admire how he cares for his tarantula, Goliath. I wish there was his own chapter aaaaahh😭Séverin, Laila, and TristanOverall, 4.75 stars. I think it lacks something but i couldn't make it out (okay i know, im so sorry my mind is tired, i dont wanna force it). This book also gave me major SOC vibes and yes, i lovee it. I enjoyed this a lot! I love the characters, the plot, including the confusing moments i had with this book. & the ending NEARLY killed me but that was WOW! ~Buddy read/Twin read with Aria!! <3“Wolves were everywhere. In politics, on thrones, in beds. They cut their teeth on history and grew fat on war.”_——Pre-review:i forgot to mark this as finished and rate it lmao. but wait - omg. that was the ending? bruuuhh🤯😯4.75 ✨Review to come—-—Pre-read:I am a sucker for found-families. I am into heists. Enrique is a Spanish-Filipino who i am already crushing. Plus, my friends enjoyed this book a lot.. NOW IS THE TIME TO READ THIS!