Hello! 2021 Amy here to just update this review, as its still getting likes 2 years later!I haven’t reread this book or anything, and I still don’t really like it. BUT since writing this review there has been plenty of nuanced discussions about comparing books written by POC to books written by white authors with similar plot lines. I surely do that in this review. I think the comparison is still warranted, not because of the heist plot line—as Leigh Bardugo obviously does not own nor did she invent that—but I still find the similarities between some of the characters in this book & some of the characters in Six of Crows to be uncanny. The heist plot only adds to me being reminded of that. However, I shouldn’t have necessarily made that a major critique. Again, Leigh Bardugo does not own heist plots, nor does she own certain character tropes & relationships. Just because it stuck out to me and hindered my reading experience doesn’t mean that was Roshani Chokshi’s intent, and I think it was pretty lame of me to compare the blood, sweat, and tears that she put into The Gilded Wolves to a popular piece of work by a white woman. As a white woman myself, I need to stop comparing POC works to white works. It’s not helpful critique and I’m sorry that my previous review is like that. I’m keeping my previous review up because I still stand by pretty much everything I said, but I wanted to clear up that specific critique. I’m going to be more mindful of this in the future. Thanks y’all! —————————Original review 1/20/19:"Half of winning is simply looking victorious."Never before have I wanted to DNF a book with less than 50 pages left, but there's a first time for everything.The Gilded Wolves was by far one of my most anticipated new releases of the year. I mean, a heist book with magic, set in 19th century Paris? It sounded like my entire aesthetic rolled into one. But, unfortunately, this book had a lot of aspects that just did not click with me.Before I get into what I disliked, let me talk about the things I did like! First off, I appreciated the diversity in this book, and the incredible way that Chokshi discussed different prejudices and how characters had to deal with them during the time period. We had a Jewish character, biracial characters, bisexual characters, etc. I thought they were all represented beautifully and I loved getting to read from those points of views. I really enjoyed that and thought that the diversity was incorporated in a beautifully organic way, and not like the author was trying to check off boxes. I also liked the characters, though I'm going to talk about my issues with them in a second. Despite my to-be-discussed gripes, I thought they had good dynamics between each other which made for some good banter and heartwarming moments.Another good aspect of this book was the romance(s). I love me some angst and I thought it was done well here. The promises made between the two main love interests at the end for the sequel definitely do intrigue me. There's also a potential M/M/F love triangle, and though I feel zero chemistry between the main point of the love triangle and the girl, I definitely ship the two boys together. So that's something I enjoyed and look forward to exploring more if I decide to read the sequel.But besides those things... I really did not like the book. Let's talk about why!Firstly, the plot and world-building were a mess for me. I could barely follow what was happening, and I feel like Chokshi just did not explain things well at all. It was very info-dumpy and I felt like a lot of things were left vague or just explained in a way that went over my head. I had a hard time understanding and visualizing the magic system, and I found myself totally lost with the plot. The pacing was also weird and the Big Moment was so ridiculously anti-climactic that I just felt like it had been a waste of time. Also, the villain(s) were so random, uninteresting, and under-developed. A HUGE pet peeve for me. Basically, I spent this whole book just barely following everything that was going on, and it felt like a chore. By the end, I found myself skimming or not paying attention to what I was reading because I felt frustrated and had begun to lose interest about halfway through. Like I said, I nearly DNF-ed this book despite having only 50ish pages left! Skimming and DNF-ing so far into a book is unheard of for me, so I was definitely disappointed.The other major issue I had with the book was with the characters. Yes, I said I liked them. But you know why? Because almost all of them are exactly like the dregs from Six of Crows. Severin is Kaz, Laila is Inej with sprinkles of Nina, Enrique/Hypnos are Jesper, and Tristan is so obviously Wylan. The only character who seemed to be a little bit unique was Zofia, but I could draw parallels from SoC characters to her as well, she's just not a blatant copy like the others are. Even the character development, where we would get flashbacks or several pages of backstory, was exactly like what Bardugo did in Six of Crows for character development. Once I made the connection, my enjoyment of the story took a sharp decline, and I couldn't make any sort of connection or attachment to the characters because of it. Once I lose interest in characters (because I prefer good characters over a good plot), the whole story is lost for me. It's unfortunate, but it's how I feel.Overall, I just didn't like this book at all. I spent nearly the entirety of the book confused and annoyed, so I didn't actually get to enjoy the story. I also thought there was a total missed opportunity with the setting being in Paris. Yes, we did visit some major landmarks in the city, but I never once felt the magic that encompasses being in Paris. There was a real opportunity for whimsy there and it was just... totally missed. This whole book was a missed opportunity, to be totally honest! It just felt like Chokshi wanted to recreate Six of Crows with minor changes and hope the same audience that felt enraptured by SoC would find the same feeling again here. But for me, it just really doesn't work.If you loved this book, then I'm super happy for you. I wanted to love this book so much but it just didn't work out. If you disagree with me, that's totally fine! I may pick up the sequel because it's going to be set in Russia (and I just love Russia a whole lot), but I'm not sure. Hopefully the story goes in a new direction and Chokshi improves her story-telling in the sequel, because this world and these characters definitely have potential! But sadly, The Gilded Wolves was just not for me. Sigh.