(4.5 ★’s)Wolves were everywhere. In politics, on thrones, in beds. They cut their teeth on history and grew fat on war. Not that Séverin was complaining. It was just that, like other wolves, he wanted his share.If Six of Crows and The Da Vinci Code dallied and ended up with a love child that was more poetic than both of them, The Gilded Wolves would be it. Unpopular opinion coming your way.Quiet but alluring, elegant but genius, character-driven but wildly mysterious. This slow and delicate historical fantasy of riddles and cryptography, this heist book slash epic fantasy slash steampunk set in a 19th century Paris of cultured aristocratic societies hiding a corrupt system, this bewitchingly written tale of horrors beneath the glamour of La Belle Époque soaked in magical tech and dripping with diversity...floored me.Lust taught him that a broken heart made a fine weapon, for its pieces were exceptionally sharp.“Lust is safer than love, but both can ruin you.”Roshani Chokshi weaves history and its darker stains of cultural appropriation and erasure into an atmospheric yarn of the most exquisite colours, painting the Seven Sins Garden of L’Eden, mixing magic, science, and technology into an art of the ancient world, connected to the myth of creation. It’s a meticulously crafted picture, but also an adventure.“Take what the world owes you by any means necessary,” Pride had said. “The world has a shit memory. It will never pay its debts unless you force its hand.”The Gilded Wolves is ultimately about the clever thievings—or should I say acquisitions, to keep it gentlemanly—and flowing heists of a group of shunned outsiders each with a seperate dream and path, stuck together out of necessity and forming bonds and swapping banter. But mostly, it is about them who find the most rewarding things to be the dangerous ones, who will fight for what they believe in, and who need to be careful who and what they hunt lest they mistake predator for prey.Because in a France where the four Houses used to safeguard the source of all Forging power until one House fell and another’s line died with no heir, there is a secret and a system of the privileged self-righteous in power, and “sometimes the only way to take down what had destroyed you was to disguise yourself as part of it.” The fallen will rise, and being in their path will not end well for anyone.“Think about what this could mean for us. It could bring us everything we wanted.”Enrique dragged his palm down his face. “You know how moths look at a fire and think, ‘Oooh! shiny!’ and then die in a burst of flames and regret?”“Vaguely.”“Right. Just checking to be sure.”Why in the world did people not love this? What they call slow I praise, what they call info dumps I find intriguing information, what they call bland characters I fall in love with. I don’t know and no longer care what happened here, my only criticism is of explanations that could have been clearer and plotting that could have been slightly better at the end.In honour of Paris, watch me pick Parisian landmarks for my highlights:Arc de Triomphe: Heist & Mystery“Aristocracy is just a fancy word for thievery, my dear wallets. I am simply embodying what I was innately born with, you see?”Before a book about a found family or possibly saving the world, I would say one of the most prominent aspects of this first installment is the tools and methods used to breathe life into the plot. By choosing to use riddles, cryptography, mathematics, science, and history as the backbones of the book’s heist storyline, Chokshi took The Gilded Wolves to a whole new level of ingeniousness and me by utter surprise. I simply cannot get enough of her mystery writing. I just thought I should note this before continuing.Eiffel Tower: Characters & DiversityCredit: NicoleDespite some of my friends’ criticism, I found myself wholly connected to the cast of The Gilded Wolves. They were not bland or their diversity just items on a list—in fact, their tiny quirks, unique habits, and insistent preferences served to bring them right out of the page. Yes, the characterisation and representation (which was not transparent and showed itself in various aspects of their lives) is indeed slow and not at all loud; what it is is exquisite.♚ Séverin“I don’t want to be their equal. I don’t want them to look us in the eye. I want them to look away, to blink harshly, as if they’ve stared at the sun itself. I don’t want them standing across from us. I want them kneeling.”Here we have the tortured, scheming, vengeful, ambitious, greedy, restrained head of our unlikely gang and, truth be told, I was mighty hesitant about him at the beginning because who wants another flat trope repeated for the 100th time. I need not have worried—Séverin might be a trope but he is not flat and rather flesh and bone and blood; he is a person and not a list of limited characteristics.“You could’ve been hurt.”“It’s the price one pays for chasing wants,” he said lightly. “The problem is, I have too many of them.”So, while our proprietor of L’Eden had a painful childhood that lead to a leashed one-track mind solely focused on collecting his dues, his story is uniquely his; his hurt, his wants, his neglected desire—no, need—for a family and hesitation as a result of a childhood of abandonment and abuse at the hand of his guardians, are tangible facets of the book and crucial to the tale. And while he is the arrogant, shamelessly reaching leader who knows no hesitation in taking extreme measures, his efficiency, perception, fairness, and strategic mind are shown and not just told. He succeeds in making his own as he sits comfortably amidst the gilded wolves.♛ Laila“Tristan, my love,” said Laila with dangerous calm. “If you get in the way of a woman’s battle, you’ll get in the way of her sword.”Hi this is Mary and I’m in love with a relentlessly radiant, slightly feral slightly soft, living goddess. L’Énigme, this breathtaking dancer and performer in full control of her audience who feels at home in kitchen with her flour and cookies. Oh yes I am in love with this Indian young woman who unapologetically and courageously marches forward and holds her faith and culture close to heart. She can totally step on me, I’m telling you.♝ ZofiaThat was the thing about numbers. They weren’t like people, who could say one thing and do another. They weren’t like riddles of social mannerisms or conversations.Numbers never lied.Chokshi has my everlasting adoration for such beautiful, accurate representation of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) next to her evident and attentive Jew addition.Zofia’s heartwrenching grappling with communication and connection, her need for order and obsession with calculation, her anxiety, fears, and craving of bravery in face of the pain and the unknown much akin to a drowning man’s grasping for dry land, all respectfully and considerately portrayed this struggle. Not only is her personality and character fleshed out outside of her ASD with her quiet and cutting determination, her dreams and passions bringing her to life, we also see her attempt to make sense of the puzzle that are her friends, comprehend and imitate their jokes, their patterns of flirtation, and it shreds my soul to see her pull away, pull back behind her walls. She is my little ice queen who has me swooning with her perfect, exceptional compliments:“I am personally undecided, but if we’re assessing based on objectivity, then according to the principles of the golden ratio, also known as phi, which is approximately 1.618, your facial beauty is mathematically pleasing.”♟ TristanMeet the Baby of the Family who unknowingly has them all around his quietly artistic, fearlessly creative little finger through his innocent, shy, broken, abused, pain-filled, loving, fearful mind. And as Laila coddled, Enrique teased, Zofia instructed, and Séverin protected, I wanted to do all four.♞ EnriqueEnrique shuddered. “Honestly. Who looks at a vase covered in bull testicles and says, ‘You. I must have you.’?”“The bored, the rich, and the enigmatic.”Enrique sighed. “All my life aspirations.”Oh my baby bi boy (see what I did there :P). Falling in love with Enrique and his permanent half smile, historian mind, and dilemmas of being a European-educated Filipino shunned by his own people because of the colour of his skin, “feeling like his own skin betrayed him, that his own dreams didn’t match his face and would therefore never come to pass,” was too easy and I do not regret it one bit. I will forever be grateful to his second-oldest brother, bound for priesthood, who told him that God made no mistakes in crafting their hearts.♜ Hypnos“You care for me. We’re all friends. We’re friends going to save another friend! This is…this is amazing.”“I never said that,” said Séverin, alarmed.“Actions have a better voice than words.”“It’s actions speak louder than words.”“Whatever. I like my version better.”One word: awwwwwwwwwwww. How can a swaggering, brash, ruthless politician be so damningly precious? Hypnos, who can annoy you with his perception, who says all he thinks without filter and half of which you should not take seriously, who desperately reaches and searches for friends, seeks to be understood and accepted, who has strived to live in two worlds all his life, one of the descendant of Haitian slaves and one of the son of a French aristocrat, and failed, Hypnos with his unabashed words and overexcited gaze...shamelessly stole my heart.The Seine: Gang & Dynamics“‘Pretty’ is a stretch. Let’s call you ‘striking.’ Or ‘impossible to look away from.’”“Oooh. Like the sun?”“I was thinking more along the lines of a train wreck.”I expected that, with such a huge immediate cast, establishing relationships would take a while. Surprisingly, that was opposite of what happened: their dynamics came to life in a flash! Out of all the banter and beautiful bonds, four stood out to me:Credit: Sally✦ Romance: Laila & Séverin ➾ If you had a sword hanging over your head, would you stay for love or would you run? If your path was one of vengeance, would you walk away for love or would you stay? That is the question that trapped my soul and, what’s more, encountering a reference to Layla & Majnun (a classic Middle Eastern love story) in an English book had me soaring.✦ Romance: Enrique & Hypnos/Zofia ➾ My heart has been ripped in two and one half is desperate for more of Enrique and Zofia’s ridiculously endearing rivalry and slowly growing sense of mutual rhythm, while the other half begs for more of the playful, gay, and deep understanding of Enrique and Hypnos’s relationship. At this point, I just need a polyamory in YA—and it’s perfectly possible based on Hypnos and Zofia’s unassuming bond.✦ Friendship: Laila & Zofia ➾ Probably the most wholesome, stunning thing I’ve read, to see a friend who understands my autistic cinnamon roll and patiently reaches out to her, communicating in the silent ways of Zofia. I demand more appreciation!✦ Brotherhood: Tristan & Séverin ➾ I cried. That is all.Louvre Museum: France & ThemesThe dark and the fair, the ones whose languages sounded spiced. The ones kept in makeshift villages, commanded to entertain. The ones who watched and jeered or tamped down their horror. The ones who reached for hands they could never hold openly in the street. All of them. Stitches in a tapestry that had no horizon.From 1871 to 1914 France dwelled in La Belle Époque or The Beautiful Era—a period known for peace, prosperity, and innovation; for glittering parties swimming in champagne and cultured courtesans; for the artistic climate bearing masterpieces of literature, music, and art.Yet with that beautiful name came a hideous stain. With the colonial expansion of France and its increased influence in worldwide politics, came cultural appropriation and erasure, came the greatest thieves of all, they who stole histories and smuggled evidence of illustrious antiquity into foreign, indifferent lands. With the Beautiful Era came human zoos.It was facing this jarring truth that spurred Chokshi on her own adventure through history and the eventual publishing of The Gilded Wolves, in which said themes take centre stage. From Nautch dancers to corrupt Houses, Chokshi tackles Europe’s “civilizing mission,” and writes:When we revise the horror and sanitize the grotesque, we risk erasing the paths that led us here.History is a myth shaped by the tongues of conquerors. What appears good may eventually sour and curdle in our collective minds. What appears bad may later bloom and brighten. I wanted to write this trilogy not to instruct or to condemn, but to question...Question what is gold and what glitters.Honestly, this was incredible. Let’s just assume we read different books and I’ll be here, minding my own business, gluing my pieces back together.CW ➾ racism, autism, child abandonment, neglect, and abuse, bullying, cultural appropriation and erasure, self harmCompanionsBook series playlist: Spotify URLBooks in series:⤳ The Gilded Wolves (The Gilded Wolves, #1) ★★★★✯⤳ The Silvered Serpents (The Gilded Wolves, #2) ★★★★☆⤳ The Bronzed Beasts (The Gilded Wolves, #3) ☆☆☆☆☆