This book is mostly introduced as Six of Crows meets Da Vinci Code, which is enough for me to jump in and start my reading quest! But they forget the team members, their characterization and leadership of Severin reminded me of the series “Leverage” so much! (Especially Severin and Laila’s shared past and their undeniable chemistry are similar with Nathan and Sophie’s relationship. I watched just for Coupling’s amazing Gina Bellman)I have to admit I had a little hard time to focus on the story because there was too much mixed mythological information bombardment hit my head which actually works a little slow lately. (several times I hit my forehead or scratch the top harshly to reset grey cells. When it didn’t work, I swallow six fish oil tablets, washing them with disgusting green tea just fasten my metabolism and clearing my mind and I finally pray to God give me more wisdom! Of course my methods never work!!!)We have Greek, Biblical, Chinese mythology and mathematical equations at the same plate. (Yes, that’s absolutely my definition of I have too much in my plate so I have to throw up to create some space like skinny trophy wives!) So your head spins, you have to reread some parts again and again because there are also third person perspectives need your more energy and focus not to decide to shelve this book as “DNF”! I kept reading patiently because of historical Parisian atmosphere and well-rounded character development (we also have too many characters in our plate but all of them are so much likable! That’s great job because not so many authors could achieve to put small ingredients of sympathy to their own characters which truly make me drop the books immediately.)So yes, the story opens in Paris, the year is 1889, during Exposition Universelle. We witness 13 years old children manifest their magical powers one by one and a well-known, strong society named “Order of Babel” build by four houses. But two of them took over ten years ago which brings the story and the important purpose of our main character Severin. (Algerian and French charm shakes us with his quiet oh lalala charisma) Severin reclaims his true inheritance which was stolen ten years ago and his pursuit to take his share drags him to fight against Horus Eye. But can he do it alone? NO FREAKING WAY! HE NEEDS A POWER TEAM.And… here is our competent, magnificent, magical team members:Laila: A vivid, attractive Indian woman: She is full time dancer and part time pastry chef( Dreamy combination of so many guys’ inner fantasies!) She has a history with Severin (I definitely root for them as a gorgeous couple. Isn’t it getting hot in here? Too much tension, chemistry and hotness filled the pages already!) She has also sixth sense like touching objects and seeing things about them.Tristan: Severin and him spent their childhood in foster care so he could be defined as sweet, little brother with cute tarantula named Goliath ( a fantasy book boyfriend for the women), animal lover, gardener, botanist, yes he has quiet fantastic resume, doesn’t he? (Wink wink)Zofia: She is absolutely one of my favorites. On the spectrum of Autism spectrum, Jewish Polish (just like one of my real life best friend) She feels too much, adapting issues with the group members(mostly she cannot catch their jokes and having hard time to form a relationship with them) and relaxes herself with mathematical equations, problems. She has a sister she left behind and she is ready to do anything for her well being. Hypnos: This character definitely hypnotized me with his sweetness and smartness. He is black queer ( even though he is heir of French aristocrat, he is still descendant of slavery.) He was the childhood rival of Severin and now they formed some kind of bromance which fits well with the entire story. He is funny, he is smart, easy to resonate.Enrique: I think he is also my favorite, too. Biracial ( Spanish and Filipino) queer character, he is also so smart, witty, entertaining, knowing lots about history.Overall: I got really confused so many times because of too much informational uploading about different cultural and mythological facts mixing with mathematical puzzles and too much narrative voices. But the real history parts fit so well with the story’s development and it is impossible not to connect with those amazing characters.So I rounded up my 3.5 stars to 4. I’m so lucky cow to receive the second book of the installment which won’t be released till the second half of 2020. So a few books later I’m going to jump in! I need to read more stories of them (I truly feel like they’re my real friends with the author’s great visualization.) And of course we all need of more Parisian vibes, mystery, getting lost in more puzzles and mythology and of course more SEVERIN please!