I will never get over this book.“People die for symbols. People have hope because of symbols. They're not just lines. They're histories, cultures, traditions, given shape.”This killed me. I mean it really killed me. It dragged me kicking and screaming into the catacombs of overwhelming beauty and precious, amazing characters.Kidding. I went willingly because I was promised chocolate-covered strawberries.But then I was ripped to shreds, so that was fun.“Scars sculpted people into who they were. They were scuffs left by sorrow's fists, and to him, at least, proof of being thoroughly human.”Quick statement: I’m one of the very few people who thinks that this book and Six of Crows are both unique and equal. I read this one three times before I picked up SoC, so naturally I’m more attached to this one. But to me, they’re different enough that I didn’t compare them until I saw other people comparing them.Now that I’ve said something somewhat logical, I can start rambling. And screaming.“Take what the world owes you by any means necessary,” Pride had said. “The world has a shit memory. It will never pay its debts unless you force its hand.”I picked up this book because of the cover. I read the synopsis, then the prologue, then decided it would be worth checking out of the library just because of how pretty the cover was. Even if I didn’t care about the plot.I loved it.“Aristocracy is just a fancy word for thievery.”The plot was so engaging and complex that it left me breathless. This is commonly described as a heist story, and that’s basically what the plot is, but it’s so much more than that too. It’s a complex revenge story, it’s a romance, and it’s a quest. It’s so rich and dramatic.There was so much that went into the storyline that it lost me for the first couple of chapters. I couldn’t tell what was going on for the first quarter of the book, because my brain cell finds it hard to play catch-up, but then I started understanding how everything worked. It shook me. And then my brain cell started dying again because of all the plot twists and how everything changed and -*screeching*“One house fell. And another house's line died without an heir. Now all that is left is a secret.”The storyline was done well. You can tell that much. But I think the pacing of the book was a little on-and-off. Some places were slower than others, and some of them made my brain scramble again. It wasn’t a dramatic contrast of “oh my God what’s happening” to “oh my God nothing is happening”. More like “holy shit WHAT” to “they’re more relaxed now, which means more shit will be happening.”“He didn't understand that sometimes the only way to take down what had destroyed you was to disguise yourself as part of it.”The characters are part of my heart and I cannot fucking believe how incredible and perfect and beautiful they are. I literally just cannot. This gang is my BABIES and I had such a strong attachment to them that it literally should not be possible.“That boy looks like every dark corner of a fairy tale. The wolf in bed. The apple in a witch's palm.”Séverin Montagnet-Alarie is the owner of L’Eden hotel, a very well-known luxury hotel in Paris. He was denied his birthright as a patriarch of House Vanth of the Order of Babel, and now has turned to “acquiring” (aka stealing back) the heirlooms that were seized from him.Séverin is cunning, aristocratic in his own way, and basically the stern dad of the group. His sass is underappreciated and he’s a bit of a dumbass in the best way. His characterization is done so elaborately and beautifully. He’s just a gorgeous character.Seriously. Look at his fanart.“Her mother's voice rang in her ears: “Don't capture their hearts. Steal their imagination. It's far more useful.”Laila is an Indian dancer who rules the Parisian stage as the scandalous cabaret dancer titled “L’Enigme.” Outside of her grand role, Laila is a sweet baker who takes care of her friends and bakes pastries.Laila’s backstory and secrets were so rich. Her empathy and ability to perform are such gorgeous parts of her characterization. I fell in love with Laila from the moment she woke up at dawn to make a croquembouche. This queen could poison me with fruit tarts or throw me off the stage and I would thank her for it. Except that she’s too nice for that and is basically the loving mom-friend of the group. She’s also my favorite.“Séverin crossed his arms. “Zofia, tell him he’s pretty.”Zofia didn’t look up from her tea. “I am personally undecided, but if we’re assessing based on objectivity, then according to the principles of the golden ratio, also known as phi, which is approximately 1.618, your facial beauty is mathematically pleasing.”Zofia Boguska is a precious awkward bean who can’t socialize and would rather be doing mathematics or setting fires. I loved how awkward yet charming she was. I actually didn’t know until after the second time I read this book that Zofia is canonically on the autism spectrum, and I was so happy to see that representation for the first time.I loved how Zofia’s narrative showed how she thought and how even though everyone else didn’t quite understand her, it made perfect sense in her head. Her awkwardness and stunning intelligence were so amazing and I love her. She’s secretly such a badass and I’m just obsessed with how well-done her character was.“Enrique, who had always dreamed about what magic might feel like, thought he had found it then: myths and palimpsests, starlight sugaring the air, and the way hope feels painful when shared equally among friends.”Enrique Mercado-Lopez is a half-Spanish half-Filipino history nerd who might be considered the main source of sass in the group. He loves cake and mythology and symbolism and has a tendency to be good-naturedly annoying to all of his friends.His character was a lot of fun and I loved how his narrative alternated between dramatic daydreams and a lot of sarcasm. I also loved how he was basically the “writer friend” of the group (that’s a thing).“So? Today I am wearing underwear. That’s hardly monumental.”Hypnos was the fabulously sarcastic drama queen friend. He annoyed me at first, but he grew on me. Hypnos’ flair and vanity eventually became endearing. Hypnos is the patriarch of House Vanth and has a bit of a rivalry with Séverin.His character depth was revealed so slowly and I loved it. This boi is just a fabulous child and I am here for his antics.“Look! I thought Goliath was dying, but he’s fine. He just molted.”Tristan Maréchal is basically the baby of the group. He’s a precious cinnamon roll who is attached to his enormous tarantula, appropriately named Goliath, and Séverin, who acts as an older brother to him.Honestly, I didn’t like Tristan as much as everyone else. He just felt so much flatter in comparison to the others. He was characterized well, but I just couldn’t attach to him the way I did everyone else.“What would friendship entail?”“Well, on Wednesdays, we sacrifice a cat to Satan.”The relationship dynamics had me sobbing. The characters and their relationships were written so well. The banter, sass, tension and romance were just -“Though the room was nearly dark, whatever light clung to its corners now raced to illuminate Laila. It seemed the world couldn't help but want to be near her...every beam of light, pair of eyes, atom of air. Maybe that was why sometimes he couldn't breathe around her.”Laila and Séverin’s tension had me on the ground. Their romance was so heart-wrenching. She even calls him “Majnun” from the Arabic folktale of star-crossed lovers, Laila and Majnun.*screeching*I was obsessed with the way they both knew they couldn’t be a thing and still desperately longed for each other. The mutual pining was done so fucking well. It was literally such an amazing slow-burn mixed with forbidden-love. Laila and Séverin were executed perfectly.“Kisses were not supposed to be like this. Kisses were to be witnessed by stars, not held in the presence of stale death. But as the bones rose around them, Laila saw fractals of white. They looked like pale constellations, and she thought that, perhaps, for a kiss like this, even hell would put forth stars.”Séverin’s relationship with Tristan was also amazing. It was such an important plot point but it was also so major for their characterization. The protective-brother relationship was such a precious bond.“After what felt like forever, Tristan turned over his own hand. The silvery scar down his palm matched Séverin’s. Neither of them knew where Tristan had gotten his scar. But it didn’t matter. Finally, Tristan placed his hand over Séverin’s, stacking their scars before saying: “I protect you.”Also, the friendship banter was perfect.“Have you never heard the saying “you attract more flies with honey than vinegar?”“Why would I want to attract flies?”“Never mind.”The group dynamic was just so fun and I was obsessed with these characters and how they got along (as you can definitely tell).“Fashion, my love, just like the universe, owes you neither explanation nor rationale.”I usually hate love triangles, but I have to address this one. The two couples were equally done and the tension and attraction for both pairs was so perfect that I didn’t even realize it was a love triangle until the end.Also, one of the pairs is a gay ship. Technically not gay, since they’re both bi (Hypnos might be pan, not really sure). But Enrique x Hypnos is an MLM ship.“Enrique used to feel a twinge of shame when it came to his feelings…He used to pray that when it came to attraction, his body would just choose between men and women, and not both. It was his second-oldest brother, bound for priesthood, who told him that God made no mistakes in crafting their hearts. Enrique still hadn’t quite parsed out his own relationship to faith, but what his brother said had made him stop hating himself. It made him stop turning from what lay inside him and embrace it.”The world-building was perfect. I was obsessed with how Roshani Chokshi made 1890’s Paris into something so intricate and gorgeous. She blended mythology and symbolism with hard science and math. The setting and tone of the book were just -The magic system and Order of Babel stuff was confusing at first, especially because it felt really complex when I started the book. But once I understood it, the Forging element was so rich. I loved how Forging felt so personal to the characters.“All along the walls were small terrariums, landscapes squeezed into miniature form. Tristan made them almost obsessively. When she asked him once, he told her it was because he wished the world were easier. Small enough and manageable enough to fit in the hollow of one's palm.”Added to this, the atmosphere was so rich and luxurious and full of magic. It was amazing. I could not believe how lush everything felt. It felt like I was there wandering the city of Paris, and I could feel the magic and taste the perfume on the air, and it was gorgeous.“I don't want to be their equal. I don't want them to look us in the eye. I want them to look away, to blink harshly, as if they'd stared at the sun itself. I don't want them standing across from us. I want them kneeling.”The writing. Oh my God, the writing. I’m a sucker for descriptive, rich writing styles, and Roshani Chokshi hardcore delivered. It fucked me up. These quotes literally lived up to the expectations set for me by the pretty cover. “History is a myth shaped by the tongues of conquerors.”The metaphors weren’t over the top, but still fancy. The prose was lyrical, but straightforward when it had to be. And each character’s perspective was done perfectly.“He was deception steeped in elegance, from his sharp smile to his unsettling eyes.”“Everything about him had been so carefully put together. But it didn't matter how well one's clothes fit if the skin didn't.”“Half of winning, my dear wallet, is simply looking victorious.”“He wished he didn’t know what he had lost. Maybe then every day wouldn’t feel like this. As if he had once known how to fly, but the skies had shaken him loose and left him with nothing but the memory of wings.”And the diversity. I’m obsessed with how Roshani Chokshi gave us so many different races, cultures and backgrounds in one set of characters. The way their histories were shaped by racial perception was written beautifully, but in a subtle way that didn’t draw attention to it - exactly how it is in real life.Hypnos, who is half-Haitian, isn’t taken seriously by the Order of Babel, even after becoming a patriarch. He’s forced to leave behind part of his heritage in order to seem like one of them. He has to change himself to be seen as legitimate.“But what no one tells you is that even when you decide which world you will live in, the world may not always see you as you would wish. Sometimes it demands that you be so outrageous as to transcend your very skin. You can change your name. Your eye colour. Make yourself a myth and live within it, so that you belong to no one but yourself.”This book addressed racism and the dehumanization of other races so beautifully. It addressed the way we’ve whitewashed our history into making us believe that “it wasn’t that bad.” Of course it wasn’t that bad. It was worse.“When we revise the horror and sanitize the grotesque, we risk erasing the paths that led us here.”Overall, “The Gilded Wolves” earned its place on my favorites shelf, no qualms about it. I’m obsessed with the world, I’m obsessed with the characters, and I’m obsessed with the writing. I went into this book because I was given a pretty cover and a vague promise of La Belle Époque Paris, and I left shredded with six new characters to die for.“Wolves were everywhere. In politics, on thrones, in beds. They cut their teeth on history and grew fat on war.”