The prison healer review WOW. Where do I even begin with this book? A fantastic story of magic, friends, inner strength and a strong will to survive. With immersive writing, a complex main character and a plot that just keeps getting deeper and deeper the more you read... how could I not love this book? In this book we follow our main character Kiva who from start to finish I admired and adored. Kiva has been at Zalindov prison for a decade as both the prison healer and a prisoner. She makes herself indispensable which was a smart move in order to survive. Even though she is hated by many of the other prisoners there especially the rebels and their rebel leader Cresta, she cares for everyone the same with a mission to save every life she can whilst battling with her own inner turmoils; doing whatever she can to stay in the good graces of the prison warden. When a new patient arrives bloodied and sick Kiva starts to feel complicated feelings she hasn’t before against her better judgement which already begins to change dynamics in the prison for her. This patient goes by the name of Jarren and there is much to be revealed. Then shortly thereafter Kiva receives another new patient and this patient isn’t just anybody she is the rebel QUEEN. But she’s unconscious and barely alive due to a serious illness that Kiva must figure out to keep her alive to face trial and complete four tasks named the ‘ordeals’. But that isn’t the only thing Kiva has on her plate. When a sickness is spreading through the prison and killing more prisoners than she can deal with, Kiva must figure out a cure and figure out what this sickness is before everything she’s built to survive is threatened. But after she is threatened by the rebel leader cresta, kiva must keep the rebel queen and herself alive by taking her place and facing the four ordeals of fire, air, water and earth - an impossible task that nobody before her has ever completed. Faced with the ordeals, a mystery sickness, a betraying heart and keeping herself and her friends alive, kiva must find her inner strength to keep going and live so she can be free and get back to her family once more. I loved the world building and elemental magic in this book along with the friendships between our main character and side characters. This book is so cleverly crafted and the further I got the more intricate the plot got making me need to keep reading and reading. This is an amazing book for all fantasy lovers and the plot twists in this book made me audibly gasp in shock and the ending... I need the second book IMMEDIATELY. Perfect for fans of Sarah J Maas, Leigh Bardugo and Kester Grant.