“Here to torment you, one last time.”To think, this could've easily been a 5-star read, the first person present tense narrative notwithstanding. Just when I thought 'A Reaper at the Gates' made sure that everything was perfectly aligned for a solid ending... A Sky Beyond the Storm marked the nadir of the series, and I still cannot make sense of the direction the author took with this one. Had I been reading this series as the books were being released, this book would've been the disappointment of the year for me.“Ten hells, Scholar,” the Blood Shrike says. “Can’t you swim?”Until A Sky Beyond the Storm, despite several shortcomings, the plot kept me anchored to the series: It was interesting, fast-paced, eventful, full of twists, and often felt like an emotional roller coaster ride. There was never a dull moment. So, one would not expect it to change at the final book. Unfortunately, that's exactly what happens with this one. The main twists introduced here are not at all in harmony with rest of the series, making everything too complicated, and the result was -at least for me- one of the most unsatisfying endings I've ever come across.“Hmm. Humans are sadly unreliable.”“Love and hate, Laia,” Rehmat says. “They are two sides of the same coin.It did look like everything was going well during the first half of the book, and the next quarter wasn't that bad either (may be aside from the pace being a little two slow). But in the final quarter, it went from good to terrible very quickly, and I got that numbing feeling which A Reaper at the Gates gave me with killing off of characters all over the place. It's one thing to encounter some losses towards the ending of a series, (and does wonders when used moderately) but the 'kill' dials were cranked to a maximum here. The direction the final battle took was too detached from what it had been until now in my opinion."I am but a moment in time that will be over all too soon.""Your mistakes only define the rest of your life if you let them."Since we had heard most of Nightbringer's history already, I was hoping this would dive deeper into Keris's backstory, and may be help understand her better. But it came and went in a matter of sentences, and her part in the end battle didn't make much sense either. Considering how she was portrayed from the start (more or less as a psychopath), I was really looking forward for a dramatic ending for her character, but that wasn't the case. Even when it came to the ending of Nighbringer's plot line, everything felt too complicated. And in general, most of the changes characters go through here are more suited to a first book of a series. You would expect them to become consistent enough by now, considering everything they went through.“A commander who has tasted the bitter fruit of war is the only one worthy of waging it. For he understands the cost."“There’s always a reason that something isn’t our fault.”But all the criticism aside, I really loved the three POVs. If I had to rank them, I guess I'll have to go with Cain's ranking, making Helene first, Elias second, and Laia third. As the series progressed, Helene underwent the most growth (or change) in my opinion, though the eleventh hour romance of her life felt somewhat out of character. Despite the frequent changes in identity, I liked Elias's character from the start, and this book did fix some of that annoying soul catcher - Elias fluctuations. As for Laia, I liked her during the first two books, but lately it felt like she was just getting in the way. But out of the three POVs, hers was the only one to add some humor to the story, which is always nice. And the supporting characters were fantastic as well, especially Musa and Harper. What disheartens me is, most of them not receiving the satisfying ending they deserve, after everything that has happened. Even though the author did tie-off the main characters' plot-lines at the end, I wasn't much interested in the story after the final battle. If it wasn't for the characters, I would not have gone over 2-stars..."We are, all of us, just visitors in each other’s lives."He awaits me. For years, I have longed to see him. Let me go, brother.It is time to come home.