This wasn't like me. So many years of being cautious, and in a matter of minutes I'd started slipping up.An Enchantment of Ravens is not badly-written, but it is definitely not a book for me. I really wish I'd read some reviews before starting it and noted the comparison to A Court of Thorns and Roses. ACOTAR fans should love this.This book is for fans of that particular brand of YA romance where a smart, level-headed young woman meets (and is kidnapped by) a prince and her brain instantly turns to mush. My initial liking for Isobel quickly turned sour as she threw sense to the wind and started going all googly-eyed over a fae prince she has known for about five minutes. Declarations of love come about halfway through, but it is clear where the story is headed almost instantly.Isobel is a portrait artist and the number one choice for fair folk looking to bask in their vanity and enjoy the experience of human Craft for a while. Though immortal, the fae cannot create any kind of art without turning to dust, so Isobel's work is very popular among them. Then she finds herself with a very special client - the autumn prince, AKA Rook - and everything changes.Isobel paints human sorrow into Rook's eyes, therefore humiliating him in front of his fellow fae. He returns, takes her prisoner, and they start trekking through the fairy lands to the autumn court where Isobel will stand trial for her crime. I wasn't expecting this to be a journey book and probably wouldn't have picked it if I'd known. There are a few exceptions but, in general, I'm not a fan of books where most of the plot consists of the characters travelling from one place to another. And is it just me or does the reasoning all seem a bit... lame? Rook’s reputation is ruined because she paints human sorrow in his eyes? Yeah right. More like an excuse was needed to get the two of them to go road-tripping together - and give Rook the opportunity to take his shirt off and to save Isobel multiple times. I was expecting something more from this. Some more magic, more political intrigue, more relationships beyond the central love story... but it is sadly little more than a predictable romance.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube