First off I’d like to start by saying that this book has been compared to the A Court Of Thorns And Roses series a lot, which was in part why I put off reading it till now(I was afraid of disappointment), but the second I finished the first chapter I knew this was not going to be anything like the A Court Of Thorns And Roses series. Yes, in this book there are Fair Folk and they have courts, but when have Fairies not had courts! I would be more bewildered if they didn’t have courts. And more over, the Fairies/Fair Folk in this book have a lot more orthodox ties to the ideology of what Fairies would be before Fantasy and Young Adult literature started an evolution. The fairies are definitely more animalistic and wild than the Fae Sarah J Maas adapted and they are bound by attributes such as being incapable of lying, and being harmed by iron, which is more traditionalist but it is also a concept that has not been explored quite as much. The book is definitely more character driven, now I’m not saying there’s no plot, the plot is there but as you read it’s mostly about how the characters come to realize that they’re falling in love, and that’s how half the plot comes into play. The first half of the storyline is that Isobel paints mortal sorrow in the eyes of the Autumn Prince’s Portrait which causes uproar in the Autumn Court because to the Fair Folk emotions are weakness and feelings are a crime. The second half is that Isobel and the Autumn Prince fall in love, which violates the Good Law that states no mortal and Fairy can fall in love, if they do it’s an offence punishable by death and so the plot unravels before our eyes.Isobel is a great protagonist and I loved watching her handle herself so wonderfully in the Fairy Courts. Isobel is a painter, the greatest if her generation which makes her the most coveted artist to the Fair Folk. She lived in a town called Whimsy which is full of people willing to sell their Craft to the Fair Folk. The reason Craft is so coveted among the Fair Folk is that they can’t perform any Craft of their own, if they even try to do the smallest of Crafts they will die within a few instants. Doing business with the Fair Folk is a very perilous task, for the Fair Folk will twist your words in an instant if they are given the chance. A deal worded wrongly might even lead to the destruction of your life. In my opinion, I think Isobel was very clever at times where many people would not know what to do. She has been doing business with the Fairies ever since she could hold a brush in her hands, and has perfected her dealings with them. Watching her survive this arduous journey proved to be very engrossing.As deadly as they are, I must say watching the Fair Folk interact with humans is ridiculous. The Fairies are so blind to the ways of the human species that they don’t even understand the basest of our needs, and therefore watching the Autumn Prince be constantly confused or amused by our protagonist gets hilarious. I loved this book and the Fair Folk it presented. It was a delightful read and I recommend to anyone who likes the concept of Fairies and new outlooks on Fair Folk. Like I said in the beginning of this review, many people have compared it to the A Court Of Thorns And Roses series, but I think no one can truly know if you will like this book till you read it. I had a great time with this book and these Fairies Margaret Rogerson created, I rate this book 4 stars."And we wouldn't live happily ever after, because I don't believe in such nonsense, but we both had a long, bold adventure ahead of us, and a great deal to look forward to at last."