O, gentlefriends, he has done it again!I'm still a bit in shock of what transpired in the last few chapters. One cannot say that Jay Kristoff does not know how to keep his readers on their toes. In every breath, hope abides.SPOILERS FOR NEVERNIGHT BOOK 1 BELOW“Conquer your fear,” she whispered, “and you can conquer the world”After the slaughter at the Red Church and the death of Lord Cassius, the Ministry has had to heal from the destruction left behind. Mia is still set on her revenge but now she has more names for her list. The Ministry, although grateful to her for saving them those months ago are not happy with the fact that despite failing her final test, Mia is a fully fledged Blade now, whether they like it or not. Solis, the new Revered Father of the Red Church has banned Mia from going after Julius Scaeva, from going after her revenge. But as we know, Mia is not fond of following instructions. And Ashlyn Jarnheim is back with the biggest explanations and answers to questions Mia didn't even think to ask. Mia is faced with difficult decisions and trials and it was just pheonominal how she dealt with each one. I am under no delusion that Mia is a good person, but she is most definitely a fucking great character to read about. I enjoyed meeting all the new characters. Some I loved (Sidonius) and some made me so mad (Furian). As much as Mia struggled not to form attachments to her new comadrades, so did I. Because as we know, Kristoff has no problem killing off beloved characters and I didn't want to be emotionally attached when that happened. (I failed) Mr. Kindly and Eclipse's banter gave me life! And the footnotes, though much less than they were in NN, were highly entertaining.This book was filled with reveals and plot twists. Some of the theories I had while reading Nevernight were revealed and it was still mind blowing. Others came as a complete shock.I am filled with unanswered questions. But the biggest question of all, is whether I'm going to survive the Darkdawn. ________My reviews for:NevernightDarkdawn