The indie kids, huh? You’ve got them at your school, too. That group with the cool-geek haircuts and the thrift shop clothes and names from the fifties. Nice enough, never mean, but always the ones who end up being the Chosen One when the vampires come calling or when the alien queen needs the Source of All Light or something. They’re too cool to ever, ever do anything like go to prom or listen to music other than jazz while reading poetry. They’ve always got some story going on that they’re heroes of. The rest of us just have to live here, hovering around the edges, left out of it all, for the most part.Having said that, the indie kids do die a lot. Which must suck....Not everyone has to be the Chosen One. Not everyone has to be the guy who saves the world. Most people just have to live their lives the best they can, doing things that are great for them, having great friends, trying to make their lives better, loving people properly. All the while knowing that the world makes no sense but trying to find a way to be happy anyway.Strange things are afoot in an ordinary town in the state of Washington. Some of the adults, and a lot of the deer, are behaving very strangely. There are blue lights in the sky, and several kids have been killed. And rumors are flying that a group of beings called the Immortals is attempting to take over the world, unless Satchel and her friends (including all of the ones named Finn) can stop them.It sounds like an interesting story, and you get snippets of it in The Rest of Us Just Live Here: exactly one paragraph at the start of each chapter, just enough to have a vague idea about how the fate of the world is going. Because that story—of special kids trying to save the world—is not the story being told here. This book is about Mike Mitchell, who has serious OCD and anxiety issues and is crushing on his longtime friend, Henna. It’s about Mike’s sisters, Mel (eating disorder) and Meredith (boy band obsession). Its about how they’re dealing with their demanding, successful mother and their alcoholic father. It’s about Mike’s best friend Jared, who’s one-quarter god and worshipped by cats, and the new kid Nathan, who’s caught Henna’s eye to Mike’s dismay. In other words, The Rest of Us Just Live Here is about regular high school students and their regular, real life problems. And it works for several reasons. First, the concept is original, and the juxtaposition of these kids having these real world problems that are regularly interrupted by kids being chased, and blue lights in the sky, etc., is really clever. It’s as if you were reading a book about Justin Finch-Fletchley and his friends, and every now and then there’s a passing mention of Harry Potter, or trouble at the Ministry of Magic. Second, Mike is a well-written character, whose problems feel real and not melodramatic. Indeed, the discussions about his anxiety and his need of medical treatment are sensitive, moving, and will probably help some percentage of kids who read this book. Maybe most importantly, the book is very funny throughout, especially in the gentile fun it pokes at the YA genre.A fun, fast, entertaining read, but one with a heart, and one with something important to say about teens’ mental health issues. Recommended.