The Rest of Us Just Live Here follows the kids on the sidelines. What everyone else is doing while the few 'chosen ones' are saving the world. The extras on TV shows. The normal people. This book was basically a parody or satire of typical YA fantasy tropes. Chosen One main characters, love triangles, vampires, you name it. “Because sometimes there are problems bigger than this week’s end of the world and sometimes you just have to find the extraordinary in your ordinary life.” We follow Mikey, a regular teenage boy just trying to get through his last year of high school. When I say a regular teenage boy- I mean a regular teenage boy. He was boring and unexceptional. I suppose that was intended as we are following the everyday people after all, but it didn't make for a particularly impactful or engaging narrative. I knew going in from the premise that there would likely be a lack of plot, but I was expecting the characters to add dimension and layers to the story. Unfortunately for me that didn't really happen. The majority of the characters fell flat, and only had one or two defining personality traits with nothing else to flesh them out. Something I did love was the mental illness representation. Mikey has severe anxiety and OCD, and I think it is portrayed in a realistic way. I loved the scenes where he was talking to his therapist and enjoyed the way medication was treated. “Feelings don't try to kill you, even the painful ones. Anxiety is a feeling grown too large. A feeling grown aggressive and dangerous. You're responsible for its consequences, you're responsible for treating it. But...you're not responsible for causing it. You're not morally at fault for it. No more than you would be for a tumor.” I found it quite unrealistic in terms of how the world was so similar to our own, and everyone just left the Indie Kids to do their thing. With social media and instant communications- I think they would likely have a much bigger impact on the political landscape, as well as general day to day lives of everyone. However, I read this as an audiobook compulsively, and flew through it. I was entertained most of the time while listening. It is just now, after finishing and having had time to mull over my thoughts that it feels quite forgettable. I initially rated this as 4 star after getting off the post-book high as I like to call it. I lowered my rating to 3 stars because that seems to better represent my feelings. Above average, but not outstanding. Overall, if you are interested in the premise, I would still recommend it. Just be sure you know aren't expecting a fast paced plot or well explained fantasy elements. “Not everyone has to be the Chosen One. Not everyone has to be the guy who saves the world. Most people just have to live their lives the best they can, doing things that are great for them, having great friends, trying to make their lives better, loving people properly. All the while knowing that the world makes no sense but trying to find a way to be happy anyway.”