“The Indie Kids, huh? You’ve got them at your school, too. That group with the cool-geek haircuts and the thrift shop clothes and names from fifties. Nice enough, never mean, but always the ones who end up being the Chosen One when the vampires come calling or when the alien queen needs the Source of All Light or something. They’re too cool to ever, ever do anything like go to prom or listen to music other than jazz while reading poetry. They’ve always got some story going on that they’re heroes of. The rest of us just have to live here, hovering around the edges, left out of it all, for the most part.”  Actual rating: 3.25⭐️Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️Imagine your living in a town where weird things happen. Like one day the undead attacked, then there were soul eating ghosts and after this a really really weird vampire cycle of romance and death. But your not like the indie kids, you aren’t in the middle of all the trouble. No, your just a normal guy (well, at least he tries to be normal - and what does normal even mean?) who wants to go to prom with your friends and your best friend Hannah who you are in love with since a long time. Even though it was kind of entertaining, it was also a bit boring. I didn’t really feel the story or the characters. I was just reading this book wanting to be finished with it and having no feeling at all about it. Weird, I know. Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️There is Mikey our main character who’s in love with his best friend Hannah and haven’t told her anything about it. His mother wants to be a part of the US Congress and is pressuring her children into being perfect. But Mikey and his sisters are nothing like perfect. No, they have anxieties and there have problems that sometimes could get them killed. No, there are not perfect. But they felt human. They had their problems and they had friends they could talk with. They had families and weird people at school. Even though I liked the personalities of the characters, I didn’t love them. I liked them, that’s all. Relationships ⭐️⭐️Well, Mikey is in love with Hannah. And Hannah is in love with the new kid Nathan. And Nathan is in love with... Mel is flirting with people and Meredith, Mikey’s little sister, is crazy about a boy band. Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I fell in love with Patrick Ness writing when I read “A monster calls”. Even though I liked it in this book, it wasn’t as good as in “a monster calls”. It was okay. Nice and readable. I especially liked the parts with the paranormal stuff before a chapter started.