“Not everyone has to be the guy who saves the world. Most people just have to live their lives the best they can.” If there’s a word that would best describe author, Patrick Ness, it would be ingenious. True, the story may not have the most adventurous plot but the premise sure is brilliant and completely original. I have personally never thought about the side characters, the ordinary people watching Katniss and Peeta fight for their lives in the hellish arena…...or the kid watching Spiderman fight the bully at the school hall. I doubt anyone has ever thought about them, like really thought of them until Patrick Ness.This creative story is inventively about a group of teenage non-heroes, the none “Indie” kids who try to just live their ordinary lives in a small town where zombies, soul eating ghosts and vampires are daily ordinary occurrences and where the Indie kids die off one after the other but which isn’t a huge deal because the non-heroes are not really affected, unless they become one of the “casualties.”At first, I found the story kind of weird and confusing because of the unique structure with a small side story about the Indie kids at the start of each chapter, but not long after (when I finally got the hang of it), I started to really enjoy it because the writing is surprisingly easy and funny to read. The lack of action in the plot makes perfect sense because the focus of the story is the personal struggle of the individual characters who may not have been chosen as heroes but who are still heroes of their own lives. I was surprised at the amount of social issues that were effectively tackled in the novel despite the light and comic tone. I was also impressed at the fullness of the development of the characters despite the relatively few pages (for a sort of apocalyptic novel) and satisfied at the conclusion that would make this standalone contemporary/slight apocalyptic novel one of a kind. Lastly, I learned from the Author’s Note that the author auctioned off the chance to have the winner’s name in the book for a Red Cross fund raising project to help the countless victims of typhoon Haiyan that devastated the Philippines in 2013. :,) I think I officially love Patrick Ness now. <3Thanks to Will’s excellent review that made me read the book. Do check out Neil’s awesome review too.