Posted on: http://bookpassionforlife.blogspot.comCould you believe my luck when I managed to get this book for review? I actually jumped up and down with excitement, I was that excited. As you all know this is one of my favourite series and boy, this book didn't disappoint. After the events in Torment, Luce starts using the announcers to time travel back in time to find out if she and Daniel are truly meant for each other but also to see if she can break the curse on her once and for all. She then comes across a new friend named Bill, who seems to want to help her but can she trust him? Or does he have a hidden agenda? And while Luce is visiting her past selves she doesn't realise that Daniel is chasing her, trying to find her, to save her.Wow! Lauren Kate has completely raised the bar now for the fourth and final book. Passion was completely addictive that I managed to finish it within 24 hours. From page one you just know you’re just going to love it as Lauren takes you on this exciting journey. The amount of detail that has gone into this story makes you imagine you’re standing right in Luce's place, it really makes you wish you had your own announcer to travel in but what I loved most was the different era's and the different stories that brought our two main characters together. Watching their love unfold each and every time really touches you and leaves you praying there is a happy ending for them.Luce does a lot of growing up through-out this book. Watching her and Daniel's past lives meet, fall in love and then of course, watching herself die was a lot for her to take in but most of all she now realises that their relationship is pure and everlasting and no matter the outcome, they will always find a way to be together. Now Daniel, I really enjoyed being able to follow him on his journey because we've never really seen that before. Not only do we get a peek at what it’s like for him but we also see how much he truly loves Luce, this boy will do anything for her and I love that. Not only is his relationship with Luce interesting to watch but Daniel's relationship with Cam was also another one that really caught my attention, the way they were in the this book leaves me a little hope that maybe one day, they may be the brothers they once were and I'll look forward to seeing what happens.The ending of this book will leave you speechless; I was only disappointed that I didn’t have the next book ready and waiting for me. I don’t want to tell you to much of the ending because I honestly don’t want to spoil it for you, but let’s just say…..evil has arisen and all our favourite characters will need to work together to defeat it. Overall, I think any fans of this series will be pleased that Lauren has managed to capture so many aspects of Daniel's and Luce's love through this out story. She has done an amazing job, one that was truly beautiful to read about and I for one can’t wait for the fourth and final book. 2012 can’t come quick enough.A massive thank you to Random House for giving me the opportunity to review the book.