I've started this review three or four times only to become disgusted with my effort, slam the laptop closed and storm away. There are several authors who do this to me, Hobb and GGK are two who for whatever reason make it difficult for me to explain why I enjoy their work so much.( I'm reading Under Heaven right now and can see myself heading in the same direction with that review.) It's all about the characters with Hobb, if you are looking for an action packed book you need to look elsewhere. If you enjoy watching characters develop and you want to peer over their shoulders as their lives intertwine with each other as well as the society around them then you might want to give this a try. Granted this is the first book in the series so we are still waiting to see how or if these characters fully grow and change but already we can see Epiny change within this book. She tests the boundaries of the society in which she lives by upsetting almost every social norm. I started out thinking she was just an obnoxious twit looking to get a rise out of people for the fun of watching them squirm but there is much more to her than that shallow first impression. Of course we have Nevare, the main character no one likes. Born as the second son (soldier) he can be extremely frustrating to read about as he irritates you with his almost mindless adherence to societal norms, to the point of wanting to flick his ear and scream "WAKE UP". I guess Hobb is using Nevare as an instrument(very blunt at this point) to examine the society in which he was raised, we don't necessarily have to love him at this point but we need to understand how he was raised and why he reacts the way he does. It's easy to get your audience to fall in love with a character who has all those fantastic traits, wisdom, courage, strength, compassion but how many people actually have all those traits and use them when needed? Very few. Hobb sets up a world that has fairly strict guidelines in regards to family and class. She also looks at stereotyping and pokes a finger in the eye to those of us who tend to believe secondhand information without applying critical thinking.This is definitely a slow burn and there were some tedious moments in the first third of the book but by the end I was completely invested and couldn't put it down.