You know that feeling when you find a book that speaks to some deep part of your soul and you just want to shout: THIS is why I read.This wintery trilogy has become exactly that for me - reminding me of all the reasons why I love literature. It’s not a secret that I loved the first two books in this magical trilogy with the burning fire of a thousand suns. So you can imagine how much I needed this book in my hands, and also how stressful a thing it is to embark into the last book of a series that has settled so deeply into ones bones. But my friends, it was utter perfection from the first page until the last and I may go so far as to say it could be the strongest book of the three.The story picks up seamlessly where The Girl in the Tower ended and right out of the gate we are put through some very harrowing scenes. Goodness, they put me through a lot of anxiety. The stakes are so much higher this time around and from those first moments onward I could not look away - the story barrels onward at a relentless pace. And now we finally see the full scope that Arden intended. The culmination of everything she was building towards in the perfectly paced slow burn of The Bear and the Nightingale, and the riotous action of The Girl in the Tower. It feels seamless how it has all come together and I’m just so giddy with delight.Our girl, Vasya, is no longer a just a plucky, naive child. From the ashes of the Moscow fire she has risen into a woman with incredible new strength in more ways than one. But of course she remains wonderfully flawed - her character has even more dimension than ever. Arden has shown how much she really knows her characters because they have truly carried this story and made it heart-wrenching in all the best ways. She can make you feel for even the most minor supporting characters with just a few lines. I think Studio Ghibli fans will appreciate the whimsical details in this one. We’ve been blessed with magical midnight roads, loveable mushroom spirits (hello new favourite sidekick character). It really is a fairytale written for grownups. And yet this tale will bring out the childlike wonder in even the most grown up of grownups. It’s delightfully subversive too- it upends the age old tropes of princes winning maidens, of monsters being slain. So many mischievous plot twists I did NOT expect.I was also not prepared at all for these f e e l i n g s. I am still filled to the brim with them. This book broke me, then slowly pieced me back together until I wept with triumphant glee at the very end. And there is a certain PART that made me all asdkjfkslsjfks. You’ll know it when you get there. Aheeeem.I gave this book a big, loving, emotionally exhausted hug when it was over. The ending was perfect and that is a rare thing so it probably shouldn’t be tampered with. BUT. I love these characters so damn much, my heart is crying for more more more of their adventures.And that’s it. I can now wholeheartedly say: this, this is my favourite trilogy of all time. If I could persuade you to read one thing, let this be it. You may just love it as much as I do.{ARC gifted by the author}