I was very disappointed with this book. Maybe after Divergent my expectations were too high, and it probably not fair to compare the tow although when a book is released saying the writer of Divergent it is hard not to expect a lot and compare the two. Also knowing Veronica Roth was a Star Wars fan and I am a Star Wars fan I figured what could possible go wrong.The book is very slow then as soon as something exciting happens it is the end of the chapter and the moment is lost. Worse still in some cases of the cross over of the chapters it could be a couple of minutes later, a couple of hours, a day or in one case 2 years. There are a few short but brutal fight scattered around the book. Unfortunately for me there was not particularly well written. I know she thanks a friend who helped her choreograph the fight now in my mind I don't see how someone can strike with a knife with one hand then simultaneously (still in a standing position), remove a hidden blade from their boot and stab the person with it? The narration of the book is split between the two main characters. Cyra Noavek and Akos Kereseth. Like in the Divergent I think Veronica Roth is better a writing the female characters like Cyra. There are also mistakes in Akos narration (yes my grammar is not great so if I noticed it obvious), it is supposed to be first person like Cyra's but as he moves around it keeps he moved here or there he did that like someone is watching him.Here the Current is the energy/life force believed to flow through everyone. It bestows gifts on everyone some good, some bad and some useless. these gifts seem to be extensions of the person personalities. it is unknown if the person personality brings their "gift" or if they are this way because they are going to receive a certain "gift". The Current also seems to be harnessed in machines and is the basis for most of their technology. There are also the Oracles people who have been gifted to see the future, but they seem to be a law on to themselves. The planet Thuvhe is home to both the Thuvhe and Shotet people. Even though it is know interplanetary as Thuvhe. This because the Thuvhe farmers control the worlds biggest export of Hush and Ice flowers. The Shotet seem to be the more vicious and warrior people, and are known for marking kills by scaring their arms. Even though they are supposed to be the more "closed off" society they are more traveled people as part of their religious believes is a annual sojourn to a planet directed by the Currents and take there discarded technology and "garbage" back for renewal. When the Oracles decide to make peoples fates public the Shotet people make a daring move against the Thuvhe and Akos' family in general. Ryzek Noavek the ruler of Shotet (and Cyra's brother) will do anything to change his fate and show his people he is not weak.As much as I wanted to like this book I just don't, it is slow paced then skips ahead and tries to fill in blanks later. Also for suck a big book. Not much seems to happen for me too much stuff is left undone especially by the end of the book. if like me you have been fans Roth's previous books, all I can say it did not live up to my expectations.