EDIT 11/02/2017/: Lowering my rating to two stars because holy moley, I already don't remember a thing of what happened in this book. And I read it, like, a month ago. This is Lady Midnight happening to me all over again. Is it my memory's fault or these run-of-the-mill-yet-super-popular books'?---“Growing up here really has warped you, hasn’t it?”“Growing up here,” I clarified, “has made me see the truth about people.”•I feel that a foreword is needed here. First, I read the Divergent trilogy a little over two years ago, before the first movie -the only one I watched- was released, and the series as a whole impressed me so little I reckon my mind let my memories of it fade by default. So if what you need is a detailed comparison between the Divergent series and Carve the Mark, this is not the review you're looking for. Secondly, I feel duty-bound to let you know that Carve the Mark has raised issues regarding racism and cultural stereotypes and the author's thoughts about chronic illnesses -also with reference to this interview. Here I won't comment on the substance of the matter; I'll only say that before starting the book, I had no idea of the uproar surrounding it, and that I didn't find out until later, when I was almost done with it. Which means, yes, that I picked up none of these issues while reading, but then again, I am white and I have no first-hand experience of what it means to cope with a chronic condition, so I do not fall into that category of people who are likely to be touched by them. I feel like it's not my place to pass judgement on this; so please do not be offended by my not-totally-negative opinion of the book. I mean no disrespect whatsoever, I am glad that the problem has been duly pointed out and I'm sorry for all the readers who may have been hurt by this.•Strangely enough, when it comes to this novel I seem to be more inclined to dwell on the things I won't talk about than on those few points I could actually wring something out of. First things first, then: I was deeply fascinated with the concept lying at the basis of this world-building, namely, this unspecified current that flows across the whole universe, and to which the gifts, special powers that manifest differently for each individual, are due. The explanation of this phenomenon is that since each person is unique, when the energy of the current fills them, it takes different shapes, and hence the difference in the powers. I found this idea very simple, yet very suggestive, and logically convincing too, which is never to be undervalued.•Sadly, this single fact was the only thing that genuinely struck me as original and truly thought-out. The rest of the world building was to me not bad, but rather dull and unsurprising, and not perfectly laid out if we're being honest. In this world, many -some? Anyway, more than one- planets are inhabited by humans, but I couldn't gather exactly how many and why; plus, the names of these planets and their peoples are mentioned more than once along with inconsequential facts like, for instance, that Ogra culture worships mystery (what does that even mean, for goodness sake) but that doesn't help you getting a clearer picture at all. It basically fills up your mind with random names you're bound to forget once the paragraph is over. •The pace -good gracious, the pace. It's no secret that Veronica Roth never really knew what to do with this alien thing, and the obvious result is, I got bored with Insurgent, I got bored with Allegiant, and I got bored with Carve the Mark. (I believe Divergent is exempted simply because back then Roth was still too inexperienced a writer to realize that the pace is something you need to pay attention to; see the irony in this?) The first part, more introductory, was made interesting by the novelty of the world and of the characters, but the second part is really tough to get through. The writing, being not particularly brilliant and, again, simply average, doesn't help much; the same applies to the plot. •In spite of everything I said so far, I found the main characters, Cyra and Akos, to be compelling enough, which definitely helped in making it to the end of the book. Ad for the rest of the cast, well, I liked the villain, but apart from these three, no one else is worth special mention.➽ Since that little yet so charming detail in the world-building won me over so thoroughly, and since I am genuinely curious to know how some of the dynamics established between some of the characters will play out, I will be picking the sequel up. I didn't love it, but if what you're looking for is a world for you to flee to, a story for you to relax with, then Carve the Mark is as good any.