I haven’t read Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. I have watched several movie versions of it though, and I have to say that I am not a fan of Alice in Wonderland in general. It has always come off to me as the bad side of trippy, so needless to say I was wary of this Alice in Wonderland retelling.“That was the trouble with not being right in the head. You couldn’t always tell if your eyes were telling the truth.”Our Alice is in this story is not a pre-teen, but a woman in her late twenties who has been institutionalized for the better part of the decade. She doesn’t remember why she was institutionalized. She only gets fleeting memories of a tea party, a man with rabbit ears, bruises on her thighs and blood. Lots of blood. Who knew a tea party could be so scary?Yes, I should I just put it out there as a TRIGGER WARNING, sexual violence abound in this book so if you’re squeamish, approach with caution or avoid completely.Alice’s solace is her friend Hatcher whom she talks to through a mouse-hole in between their cells, and whose memories are riddled with holes just like Alice’s. Then one night, a fire in the asylum gives Alice and Hatcher a chance to escape, but it also sets something else free. The fire also frees the Jabberwock, an ancient evil bent on destruction. Together, Alice and Hatcher, need to find a way to destroy the Jabberwock, so they are compelled to seek out the cunning and brutal godfathers – Cheshire, Caterpillar, Walrus and Mr. Carpenter – of the Old City. Their quest to end the Jabberwock also puts Alice’s and Hatcher’s dark pasts into painful focus.Thankfully, my aforementioned wariness was for nothing since I ended up immensely enjoying Alice. Sure, I felt icky while reading it, but that’s because the world-building in Alice is so atmospheric I felt the griminess of the streets and the dank filth of the warrens. Shudders. The Old City is the Wonderland, where Alice falls through the rabbit hole.This is certainly has one of the most imaginative deconstruction of a famed fairytale setting. The author put in all the familiar elements of Lewis Carroll’s Wonderland and gave them dark twists that perfectly suits every turn of this retelling.The characters were superbly written as well, Alice is nothing like the Alice we all know. Alice started out as a seemingly fragile character, an inmate who has all but given up, but as the book moves along she develops into a tough-as-nails heroine I can totally get behind. She’s scarred and broken, but she doesn’t want to be fixed, she howls for vengeance. Hatcher is also a terrific character. He’s manic and unflinching, and completely mad with moments of lucidity.“Can you feel him, Hatch? I can,” she said.“Like a great bird that fills up the sky with its wings.”Story-wise, this bears little resemblance with the original, but the plot, the foreshadowing and the build-up were remarkably carried-out and, thankfully, none too excessive with the weirdness. Don’t you just hate it when weird shit happen just for weirdness’ sake? There’s none of that here, all elements, even the prodigious gore and violence, serve a purpose more than just to shock or disgust. Gritty, dark, fast-paced and violent, Alice is a highly recommended read for fans of horror and fantasy.