"Alice! What are you doing?""Following the white rabbit, of course."(x)Instead, we'll just have to settle for 4 stars. How exceptionally creepy this story was! It's been a really long time since I last read a horror novel and I hadn't realize how much I missed it until I picked up Alice. You're led by the hand, thinking you're going to encounter a fairytale and instead wake up in a nightmare. Christina Henry got really creative with this retelling. I had always been a fan of the original, have reading the book and watched the movies, and there was something about this "fairytale" that always fascinated me. This twisted retelling had me thinking back to the Grimm tales and other storytellers who's story had been edited in order to fit the fairytale mold. Mulan, Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty . . . its original tale is much more dark and much more fascinating (I promise I'm not a weirdo). Alice begins in a mental institution, years after Alice encountered the Rabbit. She has no recollection of her time spent in his presence, save for a few vague details and the nightmares that haunt her. What commences is sordid affair of Jabberwocks, bloody axes, white rabbits, and enough graphic detail to leave you chilled. Part of the fun was trying to piece together her memory and figure out what happened to her all those years ago and why it's relevant present day. When they found her all she would say was, "The Rabbit. The Rabbit. The Rabbit." Over and over.When she acted like that they said she was mad. Alice knew she wasn't mad. Maybe.I don't want to give too much away, having felt that going in blind really contributed to the reading experience, but it was really interesting to see how the author tied in the original content with her own interpretation. Why I am a big fan of retellings (done right) is because of the author's ability to weave a unique story while keeping the essence of the original story. (x)Trigger warning: rape, abuse, graphic violenceThe main reason this didn't bother me, as many others have stated in their review, is because these actions, especially the  rape were never condoned but the character or the author. (x)