3.75 stars"Do not go seeking the Rabbit, else you wish for more death and madness."Are you ready for the darkest, most fucked up retelling of Alice in Wonderland yet?Like The Child Thief, Alice has all the elements of the original classic, but dusts off the powdered sugar and lets you see the darkness underneath. Madness isn't whimsical—it's horrifying. Years ago, Alice (the character) went down the rabbit hole and came back mad. Blood slicked her thighs as a result of rape. She resides in an asylum at the beginning of the novel until a sudden fire lets her escape. Her friend Hatcher, who lived in the room next to hers, tells her a monster called the Jabberwocky escaped too and they have to hunt it down. To do that, they have to confront Alice's forgotten past and her rapist—the Rabbit.I feel obligated to mention that rape is a key theme within the narrative. Aside from Alice, the villains rape and torture lots of other girls.“The wings were not attached to her shoulders by straps. The girl’s back had been cut from the top of her shoulder to the bottom of her rib cage on both sides of her spine. The beautiful butterfly wings were neatly sewn into the exposed muscle. As the girl flexed her shoulders, the wings would beat.”I've spent some time thinking whether its use is gratuitous or necessary, but can't come to a good decision. But I do like that Alice doesn't judge the other girls. For instance, a mermaid was imprisoned and raped for years at the Caterpillar's. After Alice sets her free, the mermaid is shown to have a proud, rather unpleasant personality and resents Alice for taking away her right to kill her captor. It would be so easy to paint the mermaid as an ungrateful bitch, but it doesn't happen. Alice acknowledges they'll never be friends and they go their separate ways. The inclusion of hateful women without turning it into girl-hate is a rare gem in fiction, and I'm really glad Christina Henry went down that path. And while there's romance, it doesn't overwhelm the plot. It's not portrayed as a miracle cure either. Alice's trauma isn't magically cured nor is Hatcher's. The world-building is admittedly sparse. It's not bad, just lacking in detail. But it's to be forgiven given Alice and Hatcher's mental states and that they're running for their lives pretty much the entire book. I sort of want Alice the book to be longer, yet also stay the way it is. If it were longer, the world and characters could have been fleshed out a bit more. But its current length works well in terms of pacing. We know enough about the characters to be invested and really, that's all a good story needs. The ending was a little... simple? I don't know how to explain it. I just expected more in a way. But it fits overall. Still, those problems are tiny things. The book in general is lovely. Well, not lovely. It's dark. Grotesque. Fucked up. And a damn good retelling.