I LOVED THIS BOOK SO SO MUCH. I am 100% filming a video review because WOW more people need to read this story.If you're looking for a fantasy novel with an LGBT+ relationship, I would highly recommend this one! I can't personally speak for the representation, but to my interpretation, this world's view of sexuality is extremely balanced. I feel the best way I can describe it is by this: The problem is NEVER that these two girls have fallen in love with each other and that's bad because they are of the same gender. The problem is that two girls have fallen in love while one is betrothed to the other's brother. In an interview I read with the author, she expressed that she created a world where homophobia does not exist (hello this is what fantasy was created for) so I can promise you, the dismissal of sexuality will not be found within the pages of this book. What I got out of it was in this world, "Love is Love" and that was really refreshing to see, especially in fantasy.Additionally, the sexuality of my new favorite princess couple are never disclosed in the book. I think it's wonderful that we have a book that does not enforce any sort of pressure to define yourself using labels and allows way for interpretation by the reader. Also, it's an own voices LGBT+ novel (*shoots fist into air*).This is sincerely one of the best romances I have read in a really long time. Just the combined presence of Denna & Mare in the same room together had my heart fluttering. Their chemistry is absolutely electric and you can really tell that there is a deep, true love between the two. I would probably give up my first born child or something if it meant I got to read more of their adventures together.For a standalone fantasy novel, I feel the magic system was really well developed! I would have loved to see it expanded more through an extended series (obviously you can tell I'm bitter I don't have more books to look forward to) but regardless, it was unique and well explained!The only negative thing I really felt about this book is the political relationships weren't delved into as much. This is something I almost ALWAYS have an issue with in high fantasy novels with expansive histories, so it may just be me! I would have liked some more development on that end, but I don't feel it significantly impacted the story in any way.In conclusion; This book was amazing. I am obsessed. It's at the top of my recommendations list. I'd do anything for a sequel. #NewFavoriteStatus. Please pick this one up. Thank you for your time.