I mostly enjoyed this book. I thought the romance would be the only place where this book shone, but not only was the romance very swoony, we also had a pretty intriguing mystery, and the fantasy element surpassed my expectations.I had no trouble understanding the world building, but I do think it could have been more developed. My biggest gripe with it is that it strongly felt like the first installment in a series instead of a standalone. Although this story wraps up, it felt like we were given just a teaser for the world and politics. We're given a small taste of the magic system with a vague promise that the magical character will train to develop their power in the future (that's the story I want to see!), and the final climax felt a tad weak. There was an awesome character moment in it, but the looming threat felt like it should have been the midpoint of the story with worse things happening from there to really up the stakes and risks. We also stayed in one location and I would have liked to see more of this world considering the book included a map and talked about the other kingdoms a lot.I may have gotten this completely wrong because I see through a straight lens, but I felt like this world wasn't heteronormative. Denna and Mare's love is treated as taboo only because of the betrothal. There were several instances in the book where characters mentioned having same sex partners and no one batted an eye. I also thought the prejudice against magic users in this world seemed to be an allegory for LGBTQIA+ rights, which was an interesting exploration.I really loved that Denna is a nerdy princess. She's a total Hermione- loves studying and knows a ton of random facts. It was refreshing to read about a princess who was more concerned with strategy and wanted to be a good queen instead of trying to escape court life and start a rebellion. Mare's tendency to call everyone and everything stupid all the time was kind of condescending and grating, but I enjoyed how her personality contrasted Denna's. I really liked both characters, but will admit that when they weren't interacting with other characters, their POVs could feel indistinct. The romance was a slow burn, which I really appreciated. I liked that Prince Thandi was, for the most part, not a complete jerk. This allowed Denna's relationship with Mare to develop in a genuine manner instead of her just being thrust toward the better option. I also liked that Denna and Thandi's relationship was never romantic. This wasn't an angsty love triangle, but rather a device built to show being torn between who society wants you to love vs who your heart loves.Overall, this book could have been better developed, but it made me want more of these characters and this world in a good way! I definitely look forward to Audrey Colthurst's next book.