From every review that I've read/watched for this book from many a booktuber, they made it sound like such a soft and magical story about two princesses. That is NOT what I got reading this. I got LOTS of death. No really, so much death. Don't get me wrong, I sure did get two gay princesses and magic, however, I didn't expect this book to be filled to the brim with so much prejudice. Hearing reviewers say this universe is void of homophobia, naturally, I thought that everything would be hunky-dory in terms of humans being terrible to each other. But no, the prejudice is rampant in this book, just not for the reason you think. And my only thought about how everyone markets this book as having no homophobia exist within the story, there isn't any homophobic acts towards people in same-sex relationships, however, I felt that a lot of concepts that are present in our world were in this novel as well. For example, Denna immediately assumes that her friends' obviously gay yearning for a girl back home is only that of friendship. I'm sorry, but if homophobia isn't a thing and gay relationships are so normalized, why is heterosexual relationships still the default throughout this book? Heterosexuality is more normalized in this book than homosexuality, which shouldn't have been the case if same-sex couples are so normalized. While I guess you could say this book has no homophobia, it isn't free of its heterocentricity, just like any form of media, which would not be the case if homophobia didn't exist. So, you decide how you feel about that claim. Besides all of that, the slow burn in this book claims my entire heart and soul. Ugh, it's so good. I love reading a relationship between two people grow from annoyances to the other to being in love. In my opinion, coaxing that dynamic out throughout the story and building it up so well is nothing short of talent. Speaking of good writing, I was literally so stressed throughout my entire time reading this. The story is building up to something you know is going to inevitably happen, however, I didn't feel like knowing made the stress of the situation any less exciting. I loved that the book ended with basically the same sentence that it had started with. It made my heart absolutely twirl, and it added to the slow-burn dynamic. Basically, this book was not at all like I expected it to be based from so many reviews I'd read, but I ended up enjoying the heck out of it anyway, which I'm so grateful for.