"I am coming for you and I will fight through fire."
-AminaAmina Al Sarafi, one of the most notorious pirates to ever live, is retired and living tucked away with her young daughter in a remote mountainside but when her old life and reputation catches up to her, she finds herself back in action and surrounded by dangerous enemies and even more dangerous friends! She must complete a task in order to keep her loved ones safe but if she is being really honest, the yearning to be the formidable Nakhudha seeking adventure on the high seas once again sings in her blood. Surrounded by her faithful and cunning friends and one not so faithful and trustworthy companion, will Amina accomplish her goal and will there be a cost? 
"For the greatest crime of the poor in the eyes of the wealthy has always been to strike back. To fail to suffer in silence and instead disrupt their lives and their fantasies of a compassionate society that coincidentally set them on top. To say NO."
This book is a masterpiece! I loved every single page, it's hilarious, sweet, pulse pounding and as with any S.A Chakraborty book there are frequent nods and highlights to important and serious social issues. This book is so incredibly immersive you really fall into the pages and feel like you are walking with the characters at every step. I can't remember the last time a book made me laugh so much and I was completely invested in the story from the first page. I love every single character even the bad guys bc they are just all so entertaining and the absolute unconditional familial love that the main group have for each other squeezed my heart. The way this book is also constructed and told is brilliant not only bc it's entertaining but bc in the end it all comes together with a surprise that was so beautiful and heartfelt it had me in tears. 
"I had killed, and I had stolen. I had gambled, gotten drunk and stretched the limits of adultery-often doing all three in a single evening- then failed to wake in time for fajr to pray for forgiveness."-
-AminaAmina-Amina is a woman after my own heart! Immediately one of my favorite FMCs of all time, a woman who knows who she is and refuses to conform to anyone else's idea of what they think a woman's place in the world should be. She is unapologetic and shrewd while at the same time kind and fiercely loyal to those she loves. I love how her struggle to balance her two identities as a mother and a Nakhudha was highlighted. She is so refreshing as a female character, a mature woman, mother, and so REAL! I could not love her more! 
"Our hearts may be spoken for by those with sweet eyes, little smiles and so very many needs, but that does not mean that which makes us, us is gone."

"Stop ogling a demon's ass! Ogling a demon's ass is what got you into all these troubles in the first place!"
-THE CREW
"We used to joke that of the three of us, I could kill you up close, Tinbu could kill you from another ship and Dalilia could kill you from another city three days later."
Dalilia- A mistress of poisons and a pulse of steel, you definitely want her to be on your side! 
"Pharmaceuticals, is largely the same principle as poisoning, no? The ladies here love me. So many husbands dying in their sleep." Dalila winked, "It must be something in the water."
Tinbu- So sweet and loyal and the sibling type rivalry he has with Dalila had me cracking up the entire book. 
"Save me! Dalila says she is here to help, but I'm fairly certain I am being experimented upon!"

"Oh this is wonderful, the gang all back together...........we should ROB something!"
Majed-The dad of the group and the voice of reason. He just makes everyone feel cozy but also super feisty. 
"I am not a pirate, I am a cartographer with a checkered past"
Raksh- HANDS DOWN THE MOST ENTERTAINING CHARACTER! I can't say much bc it's a giveaway but the interactions he has with AMINA are my favorite parts of the book. I was in TEARS from laughing! 
"I do not remember the details of our contract, but I do hope it permits further sexual activities."

"I should lick you. Though I suppose kissing might work as well. I am feeling weak and the path ahead is difficult. Perhaps if SOMEONE had bothered to sleep with me last night, my magic would be stronger."
 😂😂😂So basically, go pick up this book, I am on a mission to get more people to read S.A Chakraborty bc she is nothing short of a BRILLIANT writer and her books are masterpieces!Oh and just a tip! I read the physical copy and listened to the audiobook! LISTEN TO ME WHEN I SAY, THE AUDIOBOOK is the way to go!! It's one of the best I have ever listened to and bc of the way the story is told I would highly recommend you go this route!