Actual Rating 2.5Amina is a retired pirate with tales told about her that are almost as tall as she is. Used to living in anonymity and enjoying her peace with her daughter, she finds herself set upon by a wealthy mother of a former friend who demands her services in recovering a kidnapped girl. Though she hesitates in accepting, Amina knows deep down that she still longs for adventure and agrees to take this one last job. But nothing is quite as it seems, and the more that Amina learns about this task, the more she finds that this conflict goes deeper and is more dangerous than she could have imagined. I loved the Daevabad Trilogy by this author, so I jumped at the chance to read her new work. However, this one just wasn’t as enjoyable for me. Something I both enjoyed and disliked about it was that it was set up as Amina telling her story to a scribe. I enjoyed this in that it felt more like traditional Islamic histories that I’ve read, especially the shorter chapters when the scribe jumps in with some background information and tales. But I disliked how much it slowed down the primary plot and how it took away from any tension or suspense I might have felt at the difficult situations Amina encountered. This and the excessive details that were incorporated throughout led to the work feeling quite dense with minimal forward motion of the plot for much of the book. I did enjoy how smoothly the author incorporated positive Islamic and gender representation in this work. It was well done and added much to the characters. But it seemed to be lacking when it came to Amina and her piracy. We’re told time and time again what a threatening and amazing pirate she is, but we rarely see that in action during the book. I enjoyed that Amina was a middle-aged protagonist, and that she was written to be complex with interesting flaws and motivations. But the villain did not receive the same treatment – he was painfully cliché and uninteresting and felt like the villain from an early 1990s treasure-hunting film that I can’t remember the name of. The remaining secondary characters were decent, but were buried under so much exposition that it was difficult to connect to them. I’m massively disappointed that I couldn’t enjoy this one more. I’ll still continue the series because I loved the first trilogy so much, but I can’t recommend this book the same way I would the others. My thanks to NetGalley and Avon and Harper Voyager for allowing me to read this work. All thoughts and opinions expressed in this review are my own.