“I am coming for you and I will fight through fire.”4.5 stars! This book was so good! This was a brilliant and action-packed fantasy about family, love, power and finding your purpose in life. The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi follows Amina, a retired and well-known pirate who is living in secret by a mountain with her daughter, but when a wealthy noblewoman offers her a huge amount of money to save her granddaughter she takes the opportunity. Along the journey, Amina reconnects with her old friends and makes new friends as well as enemies. Eventually Amina realizes that this job is more dangerous and surprising than she thought. Will Amina be able to finish the job and at what cost?This book was funny, engaging and action-packed. It took me a while to become immersed in this book, but once I did I couldn't stop reading it and I become transported into this unique and brilliant world. The pacing was a little slow in the beginning, but the pace quickly picked up. The world building was awesome, the author spent a great deal of time crafting this world of giant scorpions with tentacles, magical artifacts, bird people, demons and more. The plot was very interesting, I loved how unique the story was and it kept me engaged the whole time. I appreciated that the author incorporated important social issues into this book.The characters were all complex and unique. I loved Amina, she is strong, brave, ambitious, loyal, resilient, fierce, loving and protective of the people she cares about. Amina is such a relatable character, she has gone through many challenges, but she has become a better person through it all. Amina's character development was great, I loved watching her grown and become such a caring person. I also love Dalila. she is smart, kind, loyal, and strong. I really like Tinbu, Majed and the rest of the crew members, they each have a unique personality. I loved that all the crew members are loyal and love each other, it was so wholesome and made me smile so much. There were so many interactions between the crew members that made me laugh. I really liked Raksh, he is mysterious, charming, and handsome and I loved his interactions with Amina. The writing and story telling was excellent, the writing was so descriptive and the characters were crafted so well. I loved that the women in this book are shown as strong and resilient. The ending was so action-packed and surprising! I can't wait to read the next book! I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy, excellent story telling, awesome characters, and great world building.