When I give a book this low of a rating I feel the need to explain why. Ash is a retelling of the Cinderella story with added fairies and bisexuality, although the bisexuality is fairly understated. Basically Ash is treated badly by her step mother and two step sisters. She often goes for walks in the woods, where sometimes she meets a fairy(male) and sometimes a huntress. She has pretty dull encounters with both although we are supposed to get a sense of her being torn between them, I think. I didn't, although at least I was cued by some fairly heavy hints that I was supposed toEventually we learn that Ash's mother long ago put a spell on the fairy that would one day cause him to love a human and have his heart broken in the same way he had caused many humans to love him and have their hearts broken. She did not expect that human to be her own daughter. Ash, decides to ask the fairy for help in going to the ball, a nice dress, a coach etc.and although the fairy tells her that it will cost her pretty much everything, Ash is OK with that, so I can only assume she is as dumb as a brick.Eventually the fairy comes to take Ash to fairy land with him as the price of the magical intervention, but at this stage she has figured he loves her so she decides to use that love against him by making him let her break her promise. He agrees but insists she spends a night with him in fairyland, where time does not act the same as in our world. You might think there might be some hint as to what goes on during this night of a thousand years, but there is none, nothing. She wakes up in the morning and without a comment yay, or nay, about the fairy, she goes off to live with her one true love, the huntress, and I assume they will have many dull years together, only talking in terribly stilted ways about really dull things.My God, such a dreary bunch of characters. The writing is quite nice in places but the story is like some slow motion retelling of a evening spent watching Grandma sleeping after dinner. There's quite simply no drama here. Even Ash's ending up with the huntress. So what! Who's stopping her? The huntress fancied her from the beginning. The world of Ash seems to accept female/female couplings as perfectly fine.One added point of extra super irritation.Ash at one stage shows up at a hunt on a fairy supplied wonder horse. The huntress is not surprised. She does not say "Wow! Ash, where'd you get the magic horsey? Aren't you a lowly servant?" Nope, she has nothing to say about that. I just find that weird.