(3.5/5)I... really liked this?Okay, don't look at your screen like that. I had practically set myself up for failure, all things considered. I mean, as much as I love Merthur Arthurian Legend, if there's something I can't stand, it's love triangles. And, well, just about everyone's heard of the whole Guinevere-Arthur-Lancelot thing. You know how it goes, Arthur's wife AKA Guinevere falls for Lancelot, drama ensues, people die, the works.Not to mention, I probably hyped this book up for myself too much. I wasn't expecting to like it as much as I did.As it turns out, this retelling has it that Guinevere isn't Guinevere, but rather, Merlin's daughter, sent to help protect Arthur. And yes, there was a love triangle, but it didn't bother me as much as I thought it would, probably because it wasn't the main focus of the book.As for why I enjoyed it, the writing is pretty decent. I actually felt transported into the world rather than bombarded with eye descriptions info-dumps. I think there might've been a ridiculous metaphor thrown in here and there, but apart from that, it was fairly good.The magic system, on the other hand, was wonderous. I actually enjoyed reading about all the little knot magics and Guinevere's ability, I guess it just added a little bit to the world and general development of the story for me.Then, there are the characters. I loved the idea of having a female Lancelot, and enjoyed the growing 'something' between Guinevere and Arthur. However, I absolutely adored the spin of Tristan and Isolde's story that was included in the book.That being said, however, the plot itself is almost nonexistent. Like, seriously. It's all fluff and feels like one of my mother's soaps until the last 15% of the book, when things actually start to happen. There's a plot twist or two thrown in, but it's all incredibly predictable.After that ending though?Overall, this book was good. Okay, I guess. I enjoyed it, and it definitely could have been better, but I've got high expectations for the second one now.