**3.5-stars rounded up**There is a magic within her, a power with limits unknown.Guinevere arrives in Camelot with heavy trepidation in her heart. She has been sent to marry King Arthur, a man she has never met. All she knows of him are what the legends say, that he is a great man. He's the one who pulled the legendary sword from the stone.While this is true, Arthur is a great King, who strives to make the kingdom a better place, there are those outside the kingdom who want him gone. Unbeknownst to anyone else, Guinevere hasn't actually been sent from a royal family in the South to marry Arthur as the rumors claim, she's actually been sent there to protect him.You see, there is more to our sweet Guinevere than meets the eye. She isn't some fragile Princess desiring a life of luxury. Truly, she holds secrets so dark, they are unclear even to herself.It has been a long time since I have consumed any content focusing on the Arthurian legend. I had fun reading this and thought it was really well done. I felt connected to Guinevere's character and enjoyed following her on her journey. I think if you have any interest in the story of Arthur and Guinevere, you should definitely give this book a shot. I think it was a nice twist to hear the story from Guinevere's perspective. It was much darker and more convoluted than I anticipated. In fact, it was intense at times trying to piece it all together.She is confused about a lot of things, her past, which she doesn't remember, her purpose and her heart.I think throughout the course of the story Guinevere shows solid growth. Although not all of her choices were the wisest, I think she was doing the best she could with what information she had.The supporting cast of characters were also fantastic. I love Arthur and am hoping for a deeper connection between him and Guinevere in the second book. This left off in an incredible spot and I know the next book is going to take the story up to a whole other level!Thank you so much to the publisher, Delacorte Press and Random House Children's, for providing me with a copy of this to read and review. This was a highly anticipated book for me and it did not disappoint. I look forward to continuing with this series.