No! No! No! And for the last time screaming till my throat rips apart: “NOOOOO!!!THIS IS NOT THE RETELLING I’VE DREAMT OF”I’m die-hard fan of Kiersten White’s retellings. I truly enjoyed “Conqueror saga” (especially third book: Bright We Burn was magnificent. Any fantasy lover should devour this book at one bite!) So as soon as I heard she wrote a retelling about Guinevere and King Arthur, I started doing handsprings but accidentally hit my feet to coffee table but that’s okay, I’m limping like Kaiser Soze which gave me more threatening and charismatic look. (That’s what my neighbors’ kids thoughts who keep screaming when they see me walking in the street!) After Guy Ritchie’s worst adaption on big screen, I needed to read something fascinating and I truly believed this gifted author could give me the riveting page-turner I wholeheartedly desired.I didn’t request an Arc copy because if I got rejection, I couldn’t take it easily. (last time I got rejected for a book I wanted to read sooo sooo much, I burned my kitchen! Not my fault! I tried to cook grilled cheese sandwich. As a result we had a grilled kitchen counter!)So finally I took the book into my hands and excitedly flipped the pages…But…Something was wrong. Correction! Too many things went wrong!Silver lining part: If you are patient enough to read more than 300 pages, last part of the book is entertaining, fast pacing, exciting, promising.But… Nearly 350 pages were slow, meaningless, boring and dull. The facts: Guinevere is not the real Guinevere, she is a witch, assigned from Merlin to protect Arthur. But you gotta walk in the dark corners of the book too long to understand the motives, real purposes of the characters. Guinevere seems like hanging in the palace and talking with the people about last week’s soccer fixture or new trendy places of Soho! ( If the character does all those things, I don’t get surprised because I’m not sure the book takes place at the 5th century!)All those characters looked like being frozen by a powerful spell. Because nobody takes any action or does something crucial to warn us a big danger threatens the kingdom.I feel like most of the time I think maybe this book can be named as “Much Ado About Nothing!” (alas! Shakespeare already chose the name before the author and his memorable play was full of action and amazing characters, I wish this book can have them, too.)So after too much bla bla blaa, zzztttttttt (I took several delicious nap breaks!), glugglugg (don’t forget alcohol breaks!) and easily sensible, foreseeable twist ( I didn’t need my spider senses to find it. The neighborhood kids found the twist before it was coming, too because I read aloud this book in front of their houses to punish them!!!), we may reach the ending. Finally we get our fast pacing, exhilarating writing he waited for the beginning of the book because the author needs to leave a great impression for the sequel.So? I’m gonna read the sequel. I have doubts but I still love this author’s way of story-telling and last pages of the book showed me there is still hope for this series. I was about to give two stars but I raised to three only for the last parts of the story.I didn’t like it , I was so close to hate it but I loved last 40 pages. But I have to admit I expected more from the author. I hope the sequel will be more promising, twisty, fast pacing and contain more remarkable characterization.