There was indeed a Shadow in Summer.From what I had been told, I was expecting this to be more setup heavy, but I actually thought the plot, and political scheming was quite good. I find the reception I see for this book to be kind of weird, as it has a low goodreads rating, with a really dedicated fanbase(half of which is probably just Allen's bot accounts). Because I felt like this was pretty solid across the board.The scheming and plot was consistently paced, involved characters acting who they were, and I didn't notice any glaring leaps of logic.The prose was clearly on the side of being good, while not getting in the way. Probably fits in with 80% of authors I read, where it is neither good, nor bad enough to significantly effect my enjoyment, but clearly on the good side of that.The setting was really well done, very very little info dumping, and it did an excellent job of communicating information naturally. In a larger world this may have led to confusion, but this was a pretty zoomed in book, without too much stuff to remember.The world was also pretty interesting, it had cultural aspects that changed how people interacted with each other, as body language plays a much larger role towards communication than it does in english. If I am nitpicking, I will say that it is kind of hard to picture a lot of interactions, because I have no idea what "Matti took a pose of confirmation" looks like. But also if someone stopped and explained what those looked like, that would feel clunky, because why are they explaining something they know.Also, can these people please invent clocks, measuring the distance the sun has traveled using your hand is not effective. What do you do if you need to know what time it is at night? What if you have giant or tiny hands. (this is not a real criticism, but if someone shows up for something at the wrong time because of this in a future book, I will give them a bonus point)Really folks, get some water that flows at a constant rate, measure how much flows in 1 day, and then use that as your baseline. Also the characters were well done, all internally conflicted in a unique, and human way, with evolving dynamics between each other throughout the book.Also from what I have heard this book was doing a lot of setup, which is a good sign, because it didn't feel like it to me, and I always like it when authors are able to set things up, without me noticing that they are being setup.8.5/10