There are so many authors who fail to present a world which is unique and different from the hundreds of worlds that exist in fantasy. They Fail. Daniel Abraham succeeds to make his world different. Unfortunately, different does not always mean better. Plot Well, there isn't any. I am greatly surprised how this became a quartet when there was no story to be told beyond ten pages in the first book. The issue I had with this book is that it never pursues any concept faithfully. It starts off as a philosophical take on life and fails to maintain that. Suddenly we are told that the whole plot is about trading rivalries and despite this there is really nothing much about trade except vague paragraphs about cotton being shipped and weavers and merchant houses. This part was particularly disappointing. It neither explores the philosophical storyline of the poet nor the practical story line of Amat. I don't know why the author chose to write a mere 300 page fantasy book and not reallly say anything. Characters There are really no noteworthy characters in this book. The seedless was one character which really had potential but it as once again left unexplored. Magic Magic is one thing that is definitely unique in this series. But as much as I hate to repeat myself, It has been left unexplored. The concept of seedless is interesting and quite innovative. So many potential uses. Perhaps the author has left the exploration to the next books. But there is really no reason given to the reader to progress any furtherPosture This I think deserves special mention. It is a good effort. I am not sure if it is part of an actual culture. But I feel writing is not a suitable medium to portray this. For eg, "I am sorry" She took a posture of apology Serves no purpose. The reader already knows what she said. On the other hand just saying what posture everyone took each time just makes it look silly. This is made worse by making it more complicated. She took a posture of obedience but with a hint of defiance. Now since no posture is explained I could not care less what posture they took every second sentence. Again, a nice touch but perhaps more suitable for a visual audience. Narration The author jumps from character to character without any real flow. We see a change in pov like clockwork and you never feel like they live in the same world and there is some kind of synergy. Add that with no plot and very forgettable characters gives you a book not worth reading. I am surprised to see so many people have liked this style of writing. Unfortunately I am not one of them.