4.5 Stars”We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we’re given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable. And there is a fire catching among us.You know that special pain that comes when a book with an amazing premise fails to live up to expectations? Now imagine the exact opposite. THAT was this book for me. That special kind of joy when a book with high expectations deliversLei lives in a world dominated by a magical caste system. Those with demon blood, (Moon) those with human blood, (Paper) and those with both (Steel.) This caste system quickly opens a dialogue about the nature of oppression. Especially when Lei is chosen as one of the Moon King’s concubines or “Paper Girls.”At its core, this book is about sexual assault and girls reclaiming themselves. The story doesn’t shy away from discussing the nature of rape or the many faces abusers may wear, but it also focuses on the process of healing. This extremely personal and varied activity was reflected in the large cast of girls, each with their own form of processing. The cast is predominantly female, and seeing this focus on female support and friendship was amazing. The varied character dynamics were all nuanced— and really show how much more room there is to explore when there’s more than two token women. Even more, this slow-burn, beautiful romance is delightfully sapphic. The relationship isn’t over sexualized, but their femininity is beautifully expressed and celebrated. Lei’s journey with herself and her feelings was constantly contrasted with the views of those around her. It’s when she begins to challenge these expectations that the romance really flourishes and so it feels like a natural character progression instead of gimmick. As a whole, this book offers so much representation for identities often excluded. It’s fierce Asian girls in love, and while I can’t speak for the representation as a whole, I know how much it matters.The writing is actually so beautiful and it’s astounding that this is a debut? There’s this almost-resplendent quality as the world builds around this lush, devious kingdom. While there’s little use of magic itself, the writing still holds a magical quality. My only complaints are that I found the caste system a bit gimmicky? I loved the discussion it opened, but the actual demon magic and animal appearance seemed almost irrelevant to the story? And that Lei is hard to connect with until she finds her drive in the second half. At first she’s understandably distraught and disoriented, but once her goals are established she became a much more dynamic and interesting character.Overall: This subject matter is really intense, and I recommend making sure you’re in the right head space first, but this really lives up to expectations.I received an Arc in exchange for my honest opinion, thanks to Jimmy Patterson Books!