Be sure to visit Bantering Books to read all my latest reviews.4.5 starsBe still my heart. My Practical Magic-lovin’ heart. My fall-lovin’, Halloween-lovin’ heart.For I have found one of the funniest, hottest, witchiest rom-coms I’ve ever read – Erin Sterling’s novel, The Ex Hex.Nine years ago, Rhys Penhallow shattered Vivienne Jones’s heart. And Vivi did what any other hurt witch would do – she cursed him. She didn’t seriously curse him, though. Vodka was involved, and all she had on hand was a cheap scented candle. There’s no way the curse stuck, right?WRONG. When Rhys returns to town nearly a decade later, it soon becomes clear to Vivi that her curse did, in fact, stick. And now she must figure out a way to reverse it before both Rhys and her beloved town of Graves Glen are destroyed.The Ex Hex is cute, cute, CUTE! I absolutely loved it. Sterling has written a surefire winner for romance fans who, like me, enjoy a little hocus pocus with their hanky-panky.(Psst! By the way, Sterling is author Rachel Hawkins in disguise.) As I hinted above, the novel is a sexier, funnier, more foul-mouthed Practical Magic. The chemistry between Vivi and Rhys is smoking hot, and Sterling’s literary comedic timing is superb. I laughed aloud many times from all the hilarious one-liners, hysterical situations, and well-placed, amusing F-bombs. (FYI: If you have any aversion to Sterling’s beloved four-letter word, you will need to check it at page one. She enjoys dropping it frequently. Personally, I developed a new appreciation for its comic value. Who knew the F-bomb could be so funny when written in just the right spot?)The only reason I’m not awarding The Ex Hex a full five stars is that the story loses a bit of steam midway. It rebounds beautifully in the final act, though, giving the reader a magical, emotional conclusion to Vivi and Rhys’s journey.So what are you waiting for, aside from me to wrap up this review? Don your witch’s hat, hop on your broom, and fly to the nearest bookstore to grab yourself a copy of The Ex Hex.It’s (F-bomb)ing fantastic.My sincerest appreciation to Erin Sterling and William Morrow for the physical Advance Review Copy. All opinions included herein are my own. Bantering BooksInstagramTwitterFacebook