4 stars.“the best cure for anything was candles and a bath”my spotify playlist; my pinterest boardMy review has some spoilers ahead, so watch out!Well, well, well, I enjoyed this way more than I thought. And I liked that. I didn't have high expectations because many books have let me down in the past because of the hype... It seems like I'm learning, lol.I was very reluctant with this book, as I said because of the hype. Buuuuut, clearly I made a good decision I've made this far. If I had read it before, when the hype was at its peak, I would've rated it with 5 stars or so. 4 starts is good for me tho.The vibes in this book are pretty good; that's something that I really loved. Like Sabrina ft Hocus Pocus ft Halloweentown, but they fuck, lmao. The cherry on top for me was Mr. Purrcival speaking. I fucking love cats. Even more black cats. I'm the owner of two black cats, so, the love is strong, lmao.The characters were good. They weren't as flat as I thought they'd be. Don't get me wrong, I loved them, but as I said, I dind't have high hopes, lol. But, anyways, some characters were lovable and I also wanted to kick some of them (Simon, Amanda and fucking Gryffud, I'm talking with y'all). They didn't have the greaaaaat development, but it was okay to spend the time. (I just had a tiny hard time with the names, very acotar vibes, so yikes, but the rest was okay) aLSO, AUNT ELAIN IS MY FUCKING QUEEN WITH STEVIE NICKS LOOK AND VIBESSSS.But, I wished I had known more of Rhys' bethrodal or whatever it was. Why his father wanted to force him to that? Why Simon (Rhys' father) never mentioned it again? Who was that girl who Rhys was supposed to marry with? I kinda wanted to know that, but well.The romance was also okay. For moments it looked like insta love, but then I remembered that they dated like for 3 months. And then they spent 9 years separated. The less I think of the insta love of 2 days, the better for my sanity, believe me.The smut was good? Magic sex, that's a better term for it. It was also cool, intimate and sweet. Vivi, if I met someone like Rhys, I wouldn't let him go off bed, too.It was funny. I was actually laughing at Rhys' stupidity and his weird comments that he made when things were bad, lmao.Vivi, I'm jealous and happy for you. You're the most badass witch and have this sarcastic and charming asshole. Girl, I envy you because this is the thing I will never have.Sooooo, overall. It was a funny and cozy read. I actually felt the witchy Sabrina-Halloweentown-Hocus-Pocus vibes and I really really liked it, even more than I thought.Definitely a comfort reading! Ignore the "my embarrasing" in the my guilty pleasures; that embarrasing is for Crave, lmao.previous review:this was... cozy and warm. i hate the world because i can't have a rhys penhallow for myself.RTC.