Perfection. I am in awe and weeping, my remnants of a heart full. I was scared that this last book, through whatever course it took, might diminish my love for the whole series -- but gods, was I wrong. It was a thing of beauty, satisfying and heartbreaking in all the right ways. Bittersweet. I cried and sobbed, I gasped, I screamed, I smiled, I felt my heart beating out of my chest, I shivered, I swooned. I don't think I'll ever be able to write a proper review, but I still feel the need to highlight some elements that marked me (slightly spoilerish gibberish ahead). Fenrys & Aelin's silent language. Aelin not knowing what's real and what's not. Aedion hurting and being an ass because of it. Lysandra battling without stopping. Elide sprinting towards death for love. Ansel's soldiers. Aelin's scars. Rowan's vision. Dorian's lack of self-worth and perpetual need to sacrifice. Aelin crying when seeing her second love walk. Aelin realising little gifts pay off greatly. Aelin grinning and swaggering. Chaol running towards his King. Dorian thinking about Sorscha. Manon and the three Matrons. A Queen of Witches with a crown of stars. Aedion thinking about dying like his childhood heroes. Abraxos. The Little Folk. Petrah Blueblood. Gavin. Kaltain. Manon stopping herself from thinking about Dorian. The Thirteen, the Thirteen, the Thirteen. A tribute to the fallen. Dorian adoring his best friend's wife. Dorian as an uncle. The gods. Nameless is my price. Elena's soul. Mala's gift. The fall through worlds and the help received along the journey. A lion and his cub, together. Yrene Towers being amazing every step of the way. A queen defending the walls. Evangeline melting an old man's heart. Cousins finding one another, two faces of the same coin. A letter from a mother. The original trio and their incredible love for one another. A broken curse. Brothers by choice. Saying hello from time to time. A prince becoming a lord. A warrior becoming a lord. A field of blooming flowers. Looking forward to tomorrow. A better world. No, I'm not crying, you're crying. All these things above broke me in different ways, ripped me apart, some mending my heart back together. I am so in love with this story, so grateful for this fictional world and these characters, that I cannot quite believe it is over. It should be illegal to attach so deeply to imaginary beings, because it goddamn hurts when reality seeps in and they're no longer around you. My favorite series, without a doubt, one that I’ll cherish forever.Thank you, Sarah J. Maas, for sharing them with us. It has been a joy.P.S.: Shoutout to my faves -- Dorian and Manon, I love you to the moon and back. P.P.S: Where the hell is Nox?