"The crow-that-did-not-smell-like-a-crow"

And that's it! Seven books, each getting longer, complex, but most importantly, better than the last, every time. Now, Maas has given a near perfect conclusion to this lengthy series with Kingdom of Ash.
"It's too late for speeches."
By now, there is little new to tell about writing style, character development, and the flow of story. Each of these things are considerably improved to where we started with the first book. The author has come a long way, and done a remarkable job with this last installment to give the series a thorough ending. Given how complex the plot is, and the number of loose ends by the end of last two books, I'm surprised how well she brought everything together, handling each thread perfectly.
"Let's make this a fight worthy of a song."
As the events in fifth and sixth books took place in the same (parallel) timeframe, first third of Kingdom of Ash deals with bringing the dispersed characters to two main plot-lines. What follows is absolute chaos, each group fighting their own battles, until we reach the concluding war. Even with a number of defeats, I liked Aedion's side of the battles more, which seemed more dramatic and emotional at the same time. 
"We are the Thirteen from now until the Darkness claims us." "What was stolen has been restored; what was lost has come home again. I hail thee, Manon Crochan, Queen of Witches."
All my favorite characters in this series came from third book onwards, starting with Manon (and the Thirteen), then Rowan, Elide, Nesryn until we met rest of the cadre, Yrene, Borte and many others. But from the original trio, I only came to admire Dorian, and not Aelin and Chaol. It was touch and go for a while, but I'm glad the direction Dorian was assigned at last, allowing him to redeem himself. I didn't hate Chaol by any means but lost interest somewhere along the way, so he didn't made it to my favorites. As for Aelin, even though her character had gotten somewhat better in time, she still had a number of inconsistencies in my opinion. But the other characters held the story together for me... until now. I knew the author would have to get rid of some good guys eventually when the wars took place, but I guess I wasn't ready for the losses. They were heartbreaking, and it has been one emotional roller-coaster ride with this last book. I certainly understand the necessity to kill some characters to make things seem more real, but it's never easy. Still, I cannot help but commend the way Maas handled everything towards the end, even doing justice to those who were lost.
"Don't burden yourself with the what-ifs."
Kingdom of Ash gave one of the most complete endings I've come across in a while. The author did not leave a singe loose end, and brought everything together perfectly, and very patiently. I guess it shows how much Maas cares for this series.
"A loyal friend is a rare thing indeed."
I'm not going to say it has been a smooth ride with Throne of Glass. Especially not with the underwhelming first book, and a below average second. But Maas recovered quite well as the series progressed. The third and the fourth made revolutionary jumps in my opinion, where as rest maintained evolutionary improvements. Now that I've finished the series, I feel like the seven books belongs to three sub-series, consisting of one trilogy, and two duologies: first two books as an introductory duology, third and fourth books along with the sixth as a build-up trilogy, and fifth book and the seventh to conclude everything. I know this entire series has been praised by many as a good romantic fantasy series, but I was never able to get in to that part here. I still don't understand why Maas decided to take things to adult (or new adult) by focusing on romance aspects a lot, but I guess it's just me. But in the end, I really enjoyed this series. Towards the second and third books, I was certain I would never re-read this but considering how good it was towards the end, I might just re-read this someday. Special thanks to Miche, Baba and Danielle for convincing me not to give up from the outset. Had I given up because of first two books, I would've missed out on an amazing adventure.
"The threads of fate weave together in strange ways."


"I hope you found peace, my brother. And in the Afterworld, I hope you find her again."