"What if we go on, only to more pain and despair?""Then it is not the end."I've never cried so much over a book. Never. There were points were I had to stop reading because I couldn't see the page through my tears. This was a journey, and I don't just mean this book. This whole series has such a special place in my heart, and what I think a lot of people don't realise is that the Throne of Glass series, like the Harry Potter series, was designed to age with its readers. The teenagers who started reading this series at the release of Throne of Glass are now adults, and this series was written for us: to grow with us into our adulthood, to walk with us from our frantic teens to the endless possibilities of our twenties, to change and adapt as our priorities in life naturally do. I started following this story, of Celaena in a glass castle, solving mysteries and fighting duels, when I was 19. Now, at 24, I've turned the last page of Aelin's story, but it doesn't hurt to say goodbye. It feels full, like a beautiful finished painting, a tapestry with every thread neatly tucked away. If there was a better way to end this, I can't think of what that might be. This series has meant a lot to me, and while it has its flaws, it's one of those stories that I'll come back to again. Because the themes are timeless, of bravery and love and healing, of family and redemption and hope, hope, hope. All of the books, but this one in particular, is at its heart about the power of never giving up, and of standing up for what you believe in against impossible odds. The wins and the losses - terrible losses that made me openly sob - were sore but meaningful, and that's the greatest triumph of this excellent last chapter. That it all meant something, and that even the small ones, the most unlikely of heroes, the ones that no one saw coming, left their mark. I've gained and lost a lot of possessions in my life, but my books are important to me. My books have travelled with me across seas, across continents, across great and sometimes painful frontiers in my life. This series is the reason why my books mean so much to me. Because they're transformative, evergreen, a truly powerful form of art. And wherever I end up, wherever that might be, I'll take these ones with me.