My heart is split in two.
“Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom …” 
But this story is not only about the young princess. It's the story of a white-haired queen of a divided people, and the warmth that eventually melted her cold heart. It's the story of a tortured king, a king who was drowning in self-loathing and whose soul was darkened by demons and grief but the light within could not be extinguished. The story of a dark and brooding warrior and the quiet, quick-witted mortal who gave him a reason to fight; a golden prince whose love for his kingdom led him to unspeakable bloodshed and loss; a resilient shape-shifter who gave everything for her new home; a forsaken lord that emerged from the pit of despair and disability thanks to a determined young woman who healed him in more than one ways.It is the story of pirates and assassins, kings and queens, Fae, demons and mortals, of different people who were united by one common goal.A better world.
“Live, Manon. Live.” 
Kingdom of Ash was 
powerful
.
Bewitching.

Gut-wrenching. 
It was a sweeping conclusion, extremely brutal but also a maelstrom of feelings, magic, precious laughter, camaraderie, friendship and love. I savored the moments I found myself shaking, due to fear, sorrow or wonder; I craved the parts that gave me goosebumps, and the ones that made my chest swell. But even though Kingdom of Ash wrapped up everything, even though I was bestowed with glorious, gritty battles and heart-warming romances, I ended up wanting something more. Wanting more from a 1,000 pages book. And that's where I knew that Kingdom of Ash was not my favorite instalment of the series.And do you know why? Because of Sarah playing favorites.Again.When it comes to Aelin and Rowan, I feel that Sarah's writing is extremely forced. That she tries too hard to convince, to convey the message that Aelin is so amazing and powerful and worshipped, that she and Rowan are the perfect couple everyone admires and acknowledges their awesomeness. Everything about them was devoid of feeling, I could practically hear Sarah chanting “see how great they are love them love them love them love them LOVE THEM DARN IT” and the truth is, I couldn't. I got tired of reading the words mate and court so many times, as if Rowan and her friends had no names or something else to define them other than their relationship with Aelin. To be honest, Aelin and Rowan and the plastic, strained representation of their bond and Aelin's awesomeness led me to rate it with four stars.In addition, a notion I couldn't shake was how unceremonious some scenes or revelations could be. In part it's my own fault, since for the life of me I couldn't remember the majority of the events that happened in the previous books (with the exception of the scorching scenes between Dorian and Manon because those are forever imprinted in my dysfunctional and selective memory), but knowing Sarah's talent, I do believe she could have done better. However, when it came to the rest of the characters, it felt that Sarah let go of her obsession, and that words poured effortlessly from her soul. Her writing was genuine, fluid, and rattled me to the core. I shed oceans of tears for secondary characters and their sacrifices, I literally choked on them, soaked the pages with evidence of my mourning and heartache. My skin tingled whenever Elide and Lorcan (whose treating was so, so unfair) shared a precious moment, when Nesryn and Sartaq (whose page time was criminally limited because apparently endless and strained banters between Aelin and her court were more important) fought alongside for a nation that was not their own. I did not read this series for Aelin and Rowan. There were other characters who deserved my love, respect, every star in the freaking sky, and once again, the only queen I bow to, the only queen I pledge my loyalty to, is Manon Blackbeak.
“Be the bridge, be the light. When iron melts, when flowers spring from fields of blood - let the land be witness, and return home.” 
Manon has one of the most gripping storylines, and the development of the bloodthirsty, cunning witch is something to behold. She crossed skies and kingdoms, searched for her identity and her future in a world that marked her as a monster, a killer and nothing more. But with iron teeth and iron nails she carved her own place, she managed to open her heart bit by bit, and embraced feelings long forgotten.
“Who do you wish to be?” 
Dorian Havilliard, the king of Adarlan, had a similar self-discovery arc. Gone is the carefree, flirting prince who brushed aside his responsibilities towards his now broken kingdom. He got harsher, manipulative and self-destructive, but was also guided by a fiery need to make things right, no matter the cost. I am proud of Dorian. I'm going to marry Dorian
“Let’s make this a fight worthy of a song.” 
Kingdom of Ash was a book I was waiting for years. It was bloody, emotional, sizzling, truly worthy of a song; the majority of characters have scored a permanent place in my ever-loving fangirl heart. Parting with them hurts emotionally and physically, and I will always cherish this marvel of a series. My only complaint that dampened to a degree this reading experience is that, knowing the sheer magnitude that Sarah is capable of (hello Empire of Storms), she could do justice to all of her characters, and not only to her favorite ones.