Quick confession: When I saw the page numbers of the book, I draw the blanket on my face and try to hide from the book. Nearly 800 pages! I’m so happy it was not a paperback, I’m holding right now! I don’t want to look like wrestler after finishing my reading (I was looking like giant when I finished Dark Tower series of Stephen King book! It gave me cries to look at my triceps!) Of course the other two books of the installment were long, too but when I start reading something (and you may guess I’m reading two times faster than normal people. But This overusing your brain and killing your brain cells softly technique earned me scrutinizing and suspicious looks and daily at least 10 emails: are you a robot? You cannot read all of them. FYI” Yes I can and yes I will!) time stops! I stop eating ( thankfully I resume my drinking habits, thanks to my stocked straw collection!  After the quarantine: it’s five o’clock at some place in the earth, cheers!), becoming more asocial (which makes my husband happier and my neighbors happiest), living and feeling the book fully.  But I felt so likely because I already invested in this series for so long and after the cliffhanger of second book, I was really curious about the story’s progression so I want to yell at myself to have second thoughts to start this one. So I grabbed it. It already glued to my hands, my mind, my heart and to my soul. Here we go! Let’s get lost in the story inspired by Arabian nights!  I have to admit: The strongest thing about the book is its unique, impeccably detailed, layered, well-crafted characterization. Interestingly one of my favorite characters is Dara. I know his POV was darker, more gruesome and depressing when you compare with other two POVS but I found those parts more realistic, stunning and vivid. The emotional part of the story fed by slow burn Alizayd and Nahri’s romance. I enjoyed the characters’ development and their inner journeys. They grew, they lost, they hurt, they ached and experienced versions of them were much brighter and likable.  I got really surprised but I root for Muntadhir and Zaynab a lot and I wished they have their own POVS ( I know the book would have more pages than War and Peace with their additional narrations but I still wanted to read their inner thoughts and wanted to learn more about the characters!) Fingers crossed, maybe we get a spinoff and see the supporting characters have their own books! The conclusion was amazing. There are so many unexpected twists make you flabbergasted, shocked. (My spidey senses retired throughout my reading so I didn’t see any of them coming) I’m so happy to read this ARC but I also feel sad and nostalgic as usual when a trilogy ends and I have to say goodbye to all those characters I invested for a long time. I’m rounding up 4.5 start to 5 and I’m closing it with red-rimmed eyes at 4.26 am in the morning! It was a long reading marathon for me but truly it was worth it! Special thanks to NetGalley and Harper Collins Voyager for sharing fantastic conclusion of trilogy in exchange my honest review!