You ever hesitate to pick up an especially long book? Like, you want to read it but then you see that page count? This was that book. But I'm so glad I did read it.S.A. Chakraborty managed to create a concluding novel that brings so much new history and lore to her world, and yet manages to perfectly wrap up the story she had began to tell in The City of Brass.In this book, the stakes are raised tenfold. The throne of Daevabad is at stake and the lives of every person in the city are in the balance. And it was glorious!S.A. Chakraborty is a master at writing political intrigue as the members of the different djinn and Daeva quarters interact, and yet, that was also one of her greatest weaknesses in previous novels, in my own opinion. In The City of Brass, there were times where it felt like the plot was halted at times for politics and for characters to learn and understand what was going on. This might not have been a problem for many who like stories that focus more on such topics, but for me personally, I found that the story could drag.This was fixed, to an extent, in The Kingdom of Copper but the balance between action and politics was entirely perfect in The Empire of Gold. There was so much happening, so much is revealed, so many plans and schemes and they flowed seamlessly in a way that made the passage of those 800 pages fly by.As always, my favorite part of any book is the characters.  Nahri and Ali were great. I admit, I never really loved Ali until this book. I thought him alright in book one. I liked him in book two. But boy, does Ali shine in this novel. He was just too precious for this world. Nahri too was as always an interesting character and I really enjoyed watching her journey after having her world come crashing down so many times.Then, there was Darayavashouh. I had to devote a section to him alone. He got the most development, I think. Dara is such a tragic character, his story such a devastating tale of enslavement, loneliness, and bloodshed. He could have been so much more than the dreaded Scourge if his world had allowed it. I've always liked Hatset, Ali's mother, for her fierce love and protectiveness toward her children. In fact, I've always liked all of Ali's family (minus his murderous father). Zaynab and Muntadhir play minor roles but strong roles.Manizheh was such an interesting character to me in book two. She was someone who had everything that was hers stripped from her on multiple occasions. It was horrifying, yet strangely... understandable, to watch her do everything she did to get it back, even if I didn't agree with any of it.And all the characters meet along the way are just as interesting. I would have wanted more of Sobek and the other marid and ifrits if only because their histories are so fascinating.Overall, I am so happy to have seen this trilogy get such a wonderful conclusion. I recommend this series to anyone who likes a good political heavy fantasy with interesting characters and creative worldbuilding.I am highly looking forward to whatever S.A. Chakraborty writes next!**I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.**