If you look up the word 'anguish' in the dictionary, you will find the last 100 or so pages of Empire of Gold.But all jokes aside, this was a very accomplished ending to the trilogy. Character arcs were neatly resolved, narratives concluded, antagonists defeated. Every single character at the end of the book was pointed in a direction that I was incredibly pleased with, and I absolutely confess I wish we had a selection of post-ending short stories. And that is the reason why I have a selection of post-EoG Muntadhir x Jamshid fanfic loaded up on A03. Also, I'm out here for Zaynab and Aqisa being either really good friends or sapphics or both.At the beginning of EoG, I had zero idea how it would end up for Dara, Nahri or Ali. Nor was I sure who Nahri would choose (romantically) at the end. And personally, I wasn't going to mind whether Nahri chose Dara or Ali, because Chakraborty is a talented writer who made me feel for both men to the point where I didn't mind one over the other. But in that sense, Nahri's ending was great because it involved romance but wasn't the focus - rather, her own aspirations and dreams of being a healer were. And for me, that was the best way. Because Nahri has always been a capable heroine with her own clear dreams, and suddenly making the resolution of her own character arc about romance? That was never going to feel genuine. I think most readers will feel the same way.But by far my favourite part of the book, and the one that made me cry the most, was the resolution of Dara's character arc. He's been complicit in acts of war, and then utilised against his will as a weapon, and then finally has the freedom and strength to make his own choice. And this may be mild spoilers, so avoid this if you don't want to know/haven't read EoG yet but for characters like Dara, who have so clearly trodden the line of moral greyness, and who, in other books, would be on the villian team . . . those characters would be killed off at the end. But Chakraborty gives Dara complexity, and I'm glad to see she understands that sometimes, for characters like this, death is the easy way out. It's kind of like a writing cheat. For what is harder is the gruelling atonement arc, but I am so glad Chakraborty chose that for Dara, and within the narrative, Dara chose that for himself. In other infamous words: Dying is easy, living is harder. It was such a perfect ending to his story, and looking back, he's come so far since the very first book. All of the characters have.It is a long book - almost 800 pages - but between 3 POVs, it was the perfect length to give enough depth and focus to each individual and ensure their stories were done justice. Also, the last 50 or so pages are the after-the-fight and wrapping-things-up type, and they were very necessary to give readers the sense of completion & fulfillment. There was a certain reveal in there which really made me tear up, and you could see the threads all the way back to book one. It was just . . . excellent.TL;DR: A wonderful, moving ending to the Daevabad trilogy. Chakraborty knows how to work the emotions, and I absolutely recommend this trilogy to all!**me before kingdom of copper: no I want to savour this seriesme at the end of kingdom of copper: actually no I'm absolutely going to binge this entire trilogy