WHAT. THE. SHIT. WAS. THIS.(rant. alert.)First off, the writing. The writing is in that weird territory between beautiful and... rubbish. I mean, points for creativity and all, but this was page after page of overly descriptive tripe."Butit'ssobeau-ti-ful!"—again, the voice inside me that loves to spout off arguments against my better logic. Oh, the writing is "beautiful" alright, for being stuffed full of useless, trifling fluff about nothing. See, the problem isn't the stupidly indulgent detail itself—it's that there's no point to said stupidly indulgent detail.  The writing is showy to the nth goddarn degree. And I admit, I'd have loved it, if there'd been more to it than the author embellishing the entire shit out of the settings—if there'd been more to it than stupidly and gaudily dressed-up descriptions of trees, ugh.The characterisations are nonsensically in-con-sist-tent (I'm angry, alright?). The characters flip-flop all over the place like half-cooked pancakes, and, wooow, I'd have never guessed this was the same person from, uh, ten paragraphs ago. I'm sorry, but what pile of wishy-washy shit is this person's, um, "personality" meant to be, again? And the plot's a goddarn literal dumpster fire. There I was, inhaling the poisonous plumes of its stupor as I gasped for air, the life suffocating out of me, insides all smouldering to dust... until, I was, at last, nomore. Alright, the point is, the plot's poorly, poorly put together. Nothing happens in the first half, apart from some road-tripping in the middle of… someplace (well, don't blame me, the worldbuilding's nothing but absent). Now, I pushed through, hoping against hope the plot would pull its shit together.(It didn't. If possible, it got, well, worse, and I'd say the flies too would be as turned off by it as I was at this point.)No lie, I've never read a more (less?) eighth-assed ending than this—(Was there a "conflict"? Well, I didn't notice a goddarn thing, because the plot points were that poorly written.)—aaand guess what? This reader doesn't want to write more of this review than this novel deserves, and will now retire to sleep to replenish her ailing, tired spirit. 1.0/5