WTF DID I JUST READ.This book is like Hotel California. You can check out any time you like (and you will, mentally, many, many times - trust me!), but you can never leave! After the Twilight series I never dreamed another really goddamn awful book would come along that would have the strange, voodeedoo power of compelling me to read to the very last page, despite every ounce of good sense begging me to kick it to the curb. And yes, I know a pretty cover is not a good reason to read a book, I should have known better, I only have myself to blame, yada yada, but I'm claiming ensorcellment and sticking with it!  Now, normally a 300 page book would take me about 2 or 3 days at the most, but this was an arduous 5 day slog. The "what the fucks" come at you pretty thick and fast, and when it seems absolutely impossible to get any worse or more bizarre, it does, and with serious melodramatic gusto! Here is actual footage of me reading this book: So, with that happening every few pages, sometimes every few lines, a mere 5 days is rather a miraculous feat in and of itself.It's not that the pacing is slow, in fact its just the opposite. Everything happens too quickly and nothing feels well thought out or believable. As many bewildered readers before me have mentioned, there are heaping helpings of the dreaded insta-love, which is ALMOST forgivable in the very beginning because our protagonist (who we never find out the real name of, lets call her Margaret) actually knows its ridiculous and never fails to mention its ridiculosity every time the big L-word comes up. Buuuuut, she goes hurtling headlong into it regardless!Then, not to get too spoilery, but I couldn't quite wrap my head around what she was kissing when his glamour fell away? His fangs? His decaying lips? I'm all for "it's what's on the inside that counts" but COME ON, Margaret, that's pushing it! By the time I got to it I wasn't surprised that the ending was a mashed together, all-too convenient happily ever after, in which there are so many loose ends it is a wonder that this book is a standalone. (A fact for which I, personally, am extremely grateful. I'd rather pretend this never happened.)In many, many reviews of this book I have read variations on the phrase, "But I have questions!" And to those sweet, summer children I say: There are no answers, dear ones! Our new friend Margaret was either recounting a fever dream or tripping serious balls while writing this. We can only hope that she is okay now and move on with our lives.