*i decided to increase my rating in the re-read cuz i guess while re-reading i got the self-taught hacks and cheats on where to skim and where to read slowly and absorb every word oh who the fuck am i kidding Rook is just that hoti mean look at him:  ok sorry, this  perfectartbyjust remember: to enjoy this (if you don't like an ocean of forest description, skim the part which looks like a huge brick, trust me it'll 'enhance' reading experience*Original review:"No human had ever visited a fairy court and lived. Or at least, none had ever done so and remained human. I was a master of the Craft, escorted by a prince, but I had to wonder whether I truly was a special case, or if every mortal deluded themselves into thinking they were an exception to the rule."DANGAfter reading Sorcery Of Thorns I fell in love with that book, so somehow I ended up with this and I was sooooo excited. *takes shaky breath* entering this book was like rushing off to a colorful balloon in a distance only to find out that the balloon was half-deflated.what happened with meI sat down, on a sofa , with this book, I started it and after 40 pages... I.GOT.DIZZY!The Story Expansion of book synopsisIsobel-is-a-child-prodigy-painter-who-lives-with-her-aunt-Emma-and-twin-sisters-March-and-May-paints-fair-ones-(aka faerie)-in-exchange-for-enchantments-to-her-house-such-as-chicken-eggs-and-spells-to-protect-her-house-this-and-that-prince-rook-comes-{MEGA ATTRACTION THE ONES WE SEE IN NON FANTASY NOVELS}-Isobel-ends-up-painting-his-eyes-wrong-read-back-of-the-synopsis-Isobel-and-Rook-go-on-for-HALF-OF-A-BOOK-TRAVEL-10/22 CHAPTERS YOU GUYS 10 OUT OF 22 CHAPTERS!!!! FILLED WITH DETAILS OF MOSSES, TWIGS, BIRD SOUNDS, STONES, SWEAT, AND IN THE LEAST AMOUNT ... INTIMATE WONDERS AND ATTRACTION (which obviously needed to be more)That's where the writing went wrong. The fair ones of these courts were so weird. mostly they behaved like well-mannered zombies, which was kind of terrifying, they did not know how to use any sort of craft AT ALL. i guess it was a threat to them as well, but their behavior and hidden hatred towards mortals was actually jealousy. "I wiped off my fingers, but it wasn't the mold or maggots making my stomach revolt... No, it was the knowledge that all around me sat empty people in rotting clothes, nibbling on flyblown trifles while they spoke of nothing of consequence with fixed smiles on their false faces."But come onnn. I felt like reading Peeta and Katniss during their 'walks' in the Hunger Games. And then there were unnecessary details.here is ONE very long paragraph (my apologies):"Dim as it was, the forest glowed. The golden leaves flashing by blazed like sparks caught in the updraft of a fire. A scarlet carpet unrolled before us, rich and flawless as velvet. Rising from the forest floor, the black, tangled roots breathed a bluish mist that reduced the farthest trees’ trunks to ghostly silhouettes, yet left their foliage’s luminous hues untouched. Vivid moss speckled the branches like tarnished copper. The crisp spice of pine sap infused the cool air over a musty perfume of dry leaves. A knot swelled in my throat. I couldn’t look away. There was too much of it, too fast. I’d never be able to drink it all in—I needed to absorb every leaf, every chip of bark, every flake of moss. I clenched my fingers in Rook’s mane, ravenous for my paintbrush, my easel. Sitting up straighter, I let the wind rush over me and fill my lungs to bursting. It still wasn’t enough. After seventeen years of living in a world that never changed, I felt as though I’d just flung off a stifling wool sweater and felt the breeze on my skin for the very first time. Nothing would ever be enough again."*sighs* and every page had a paragraph like this. Look i get it that she is a child prodigy and an artist. I get it how painters describe EVERY SINGLE DETAIL, but some don't, and even if 'detailed' description of something was needed then make it Rook's handsomeness or his behavior towards Isobel. not-the-forest-please-for-the-love-of-sanity.The characters:Isobel: A 17 year old prodigy, who describes everything ... in a forest. period.Rook: The autumn prince. Caring. Passionate. and has tendency to get hopeless and sulk. Gadfly:  Thank goodness for his presence in this book, he entertained me so much. Gadfly plays a very important role in this book. He's Isobel's client for a while. As being spring prince he does have quite power but Gadfly has his own intentions to bring Isobel to Autumn-lands and Spring-lands. and of course he plays the perfect gentleman all decent and restrained.Lark:  Gadfly's niece. Living in spring court. Lark reminded me of 2 things. One, the rhyme on baby t.v. that was my favorite when I was a child.she behaves like this as wellTwo, of that curious energetic 10 year old girl that hosts you when you go to somebody's house and she accidentally ends up giving you food poisoning or breaks your leg.Like Gadfly, she also kept me amused. of-course. The writing'_'ohhhh dear lord, i wish painting books contained this much details rather than fantasy novels. and also some of the quotes from this book made me cringehere's one:ummm errr"A storm gathered in my breast; the butterflies fell fluttering weakly to the ground.With a sharp intake of breath, Rook looked away."continuing with storysomewhere around the end of their travel, Gadfly (prince of spring court) takes them to his land, they spend some days there but here is the thing: there is a law, it's called the Good Law DictionaryGood Law (law): that a fair one and a mortal should not fall in love together. Green well: a source of water river/well/spring with that type of water that when someone drinks from it they 'die' and become immortalduring their travel Rook and Isobel fall in love with each other. this becomes a problem because they are breaking the good law. A ONE hella problem."Love between us was impossible. I forced myself to confront what would become of us if I allowed this feeling to take flight. There were only two options: drink from the Green Well, or condemn us both to death. "I liked the story, really did, about how Rook was attracted to Isobel from the beginning and vice versa, how he takes care of her 'mortal necessities' and learns them, how he protects her, stands up for her. Rook's and Isobel's relationship i just loved it! I adored Rook from the beginning, he was so gentle and caring towards Isobel. Even the way he looked at her showed so much affection."He really is in love with me,I thought. My heart leapt forward like a startled deer. Seeing a confession of love in his eyes was nothing like hearing it declared aloud. This was a look that would make time stop, if it could. Soft and sharp at once, an aching tenderness edged with sorrow, naked proof of a heart already broken. Here I stood in a dragonfly dress, holding his arm, and he knew our time was almost over."I really wanted this book to become my favorite, bummer it didn't. I had absolute no negative thoughts about this book before reading but i will say that the author's writing has improved so much, the next stand alone by Margaret is MAGNIFICENT! do give it a try Have a happy day in the forest!and paint trees and be happy!