⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Might Contain Spoilers*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱Re-read review:This book has an interesting concept. I remember liking it way back in the days and in 2021 I started thinking about this book again. I remembered bits and pieces and got curious if I would still like it. Normally I would avoid re-reading YA as most of the time they end up being to immature for me; not the stories but the characters. The book centers around Cassia, who has waited for the Match Banquet here whole life. It is where she'll see, for the first time, the face of the boy who will be her Match, the one she'll marry at twenty-one and have children with around twenty-four. However, things doesn't go as planned when a mistake happens and matches her with two boys, her childhood best friend and Ky, a guy she knows but doesn't really know. Even though she was told it was a mistake, Cassia's eyes starts to open and her heart starts to fall.Overall, like I said; interesting concept, however, the book contains lots of information and everything feels a bit shallow. I think, perhaps, that it is the writing style that brings this book down. I feel so apart from Cassia, so much on the outside because of the way it is written. And Cassia herself felt like she didn't really have a personality. While I could see Cassia and Ky falling in love over the course of months, I still felt like it could've felt deeper. I think Ky was the best part of the story as he has some mystery to him but Cassia kinda brings it down. That said, I finished the re-read and I did like it somewhat, but the writing puts me off and shallow characters aren't my thing. Cassia also tended to be a bit immature, but I guess it's how she's molded so I can't fault her for it. I'm not sure I could continue the series... perhaps I'll just look at spoilers...? I still cannot believe that my second book for 2022 was a freaking YA... Clapping myself on the shoulder for that one. I should also say that that immature characters aren't the only reason me and YA doesn't work anymore... let's just say I missed sexual tension and sex scenes. I know, I'm that fucked up. The characters:→ Cassia Maria Reyes (17), main character.→ Xander Thomas Carrow, Cassia's best friend and her match.→ Molly, Cassia's mother, an Arboretum worker.→ Abran, Cassia's father, who works months in old neighborhoods that are being restored and turned into new Boroughs for public use; a Restoration supervisor→ Lea Abbey, a girl Cassia thought would choose to be "Single" but went through the Match Banquet and got matched with Joseph Peterson.→ Bram (10), Cassia's brother.→ Em, Cassia's best girlfriend.→ Ky Markham, Cassia's mistake match. This was a mistake because he would never be anyone’s Match as he's an Aberration: Aberrations live among us; they’re not dangerous like Anomalies, who have to be separated from Society. Though Aberrations usually acquire their status due to an Infraction, they are protected; their identities aren’t usually common knowledge. Only the Officials in the Societal Classification Department and other related fields have access to such information. It’s through no fault of his own. But his father committed an Infraction. The Society couldn’t overlook a factor like that, even when they allowed Aida and Patrick Markhams to adopt Ky. He had to retain his classification as an Aberration, and, as such, was ineligible to be entered in the Matching pool. Ky is Aida’s nephew. Her sister’s son. He received his permanent work position a year ago; works at the nutrition disposal center.→ Sera and Piper, friends of Cassia.→ Norah, co-worker of Cassia at the sorting. Higher position than Cassia.Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Young Adult) Science Fiction > Dystopia Romance (M/F).Series: - Series, Book One.Love triangle? - Yes, in a way which is why I shelved it as one. However, the choice seems pretty clear, and we barely see Xander in the book.Cheating? - Hard to answer. In my opinion, no. But Cassia gets Matched with Xander and still kisses both Xander and Ky. But then again, she was also Matched with Ky, mistake or not.Triggers? - Death.HEA? - No.Favorite character? - Ky Markham.Would I read more by this author/or in this series? - Umm, probably not.Would I recommend this book/series? - Yes, if you like YA, shallow characters and a bit of predictability.Will I read this again in the future? - No.Rating - 2.5 stars.First read review:Rating: 4 stars.