“Every minute you spend with someone gives them a part of your life and takes part of theirs.”I didn't have high expectation coming into this book. This turned out to be a good thing, because I can only imagine how angry I'd be if I thought this book was going to be good...it wasn't. I wouldn't go so far as to say that this book was terrible, but it just had nothing appealing at all. If you have read The Giver by Lois Lowry, then you would know that it had a very distinct and inspirational, dystopian setting. It is the basis for practically every dystopia, so I have no problem when I see parallels between The Giver and whatever other book I'm reading. That being said, I was ticked off that Matched literally takes The Giver's setting and has no unique spin on it. It's the exact same setting! It was like Ally Condie decided to write her own fanfic of The Giver. I imagine her train of thought was something like this:Oh my gosh, what if the Giver had love triangles and kissing! Lots and lots of kissing! That would be puuuuuuuuurfect! You don't need a plot, just have tons of making out, especially since it's not allowed! And one of the boys must write poetry! Because that makes him so dreamy and hot, and not cliche at all! Ooh, and how about I make Pretty Boy super sweet and nice! That will make it impossible for my Mary Sue to choose between them! Mwhuahahaha!  I'm not even kidding, I truly believe that's what the author was thinking when she wrote this.Ugh, this book. Just, ugh!!! The main problem was the snail pace. If it went any slower it'd be going backwards (which it might have been, come to think of it). Literally nothing happens! NOTHING! Where's the action? Climax? Turning point? Anything!? The whole darn book was nothing but Cassia's relationship with Ky! Speaking of which, why is every male Asian character in YA literature named Ky? *sigh* Anyway, Ky is the cliche, rebellious emo guy that's in every teen romance book, except wait! There's more. He writes POETRY! Yes, poetry! Someone shoot me already. It can't get any worse than that, right? Think again...“Angels?” “You know. The ones in the old stories. How they can fly to heaven.” “Do you think anyone believes in them anymore?” he asks. “I don’t know. No. Do you?” “I believe in you.”I've never groaned so much while reading a book, in all my life. I couldn't help myself! Some of the dialogue was absolutely awful! Thankfully, Cassia and Xander's conversations weren't super cheesy and/or annoying. Xander is the typical best-friend-who-I-love-like-a-brother, and he's hardly even in the book! And even when he is, all Cassia thinks about is Oh Ky, I wonder what his lips would feel like on mine... Cassia wasn't an awful protagonist, but she was just so boring! I actually forgot her name when I first started writing this review.I have a few questions about this book...just a few.-What the heck is sorting and how is it significant to the Society? Forgive me if I'm wrong, but at any point in the book was it specified what you use sorting for??? You expect me to believe that Cassia spent her whole life sorting number on a screen for no apparent reason, and not a single soul in the Society questions this? The only time Cassia actually sorts anything, it's of workers being separated into groups based on their proficiency. She spent her entire life preparing for that!? Give me a break.- No one in the community can write. Let me get this straight. In a community where EVERYONE knows how to read and type on computers don't know how to WRITE!? What the heck? Where's the logic in that!? Sure, she might not know how to write cursive, but not being able to write at all? Are you serious?-I'd like to know how the blue pills work. They're for emergencies, but what exactly does that mean? Is it some kind of intense painkiller or a magical pill that mends bones? Either guess is possible, because WE AREN'T TOLD ANYTHING! Also, I couldn't help but think of this every time the pills were mentioned.-Ahem, I couldn't seem to find an antagonist in this story, do I need glasses? I seem to recall that one Official being in the story, but she couldn't possibly be the villain since she was only in the story like three times...right? Well, that's about as close as we get to an antagonist!And don't even get me started on the ending! That was supposed to be a cliffhanger? Really? I honestly didn't even realize the story ended and had to reread the last 5 pages just to be sure (so I could celebrate). It was abrupt, inconclusive, and doesn't even make me want to read the sequel.There wasn't necessarily anything I hated about this book, but I couldn't find anything that I really liked. I'll cut Condie some slack, the cover was beautiful, writing was decent, and Ky & Xander, cliche as they are, were fairly likable. But, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone...unless you're a fan of cliche love triangles and haven't read The Giver? Maybe? On another matter, this is the first rant on my blog! I'm so proud of myself! ;)