2 Stars(P: Poor, or D as in Dull)Actually something in real life made me read this. (some of the things happening in our society is terrifyingly similar to this, I’m afraid!)What if we didn’t have a choice over our lives?The world building, the society, was simple & disciplined, too strict, too nosy, recording everything & knows what you will choose for the special occasions. (this actually reminded me of “Winter Soldier” Marvel movie.) I cannot believe how no one protested yet, I could’ve throw it across the wall if it wasn’t on my phone!What if you could read only 100 books?Listen to Only 100 music?Only 100 poems survived?& everything else was forgotten forever…Can you imagine??What if you could only wear clothes with a few colours?& you couldn’t even choose that one person, the Special one, you would live with for the rest of your life, because the society decided that for you.No choices.No privacy.You can’t have whatever your heart desires.Even your dreams are not safe anymore.This world seems like a nightmare to me.(the italic part is my opinion just to be emphasized how horrible the world is, not from the book.)Vibes: Divergent & Shatter me (Dystopian)- this world was better than Shatter me & very simpler than DivergentGreat beginning.slow middle.shocking end.It was good & fascinating at first, intriguing, but then it felt like a journal, filled with unimportant details of a routine life & chores, annoyingly too many short sentences & slow pace.The author needed to add some excitements to this book. Some rebels, some protests, some people who ignored the laws.The characters were naïve & stupid, accepting what the strict society forced them to do. I wanted a badass heroine ignoring or defying the law, someone like Katniss or Tris, but Cassia was too plain to be a protagonist, she has her doubts, yes, but when you don’t act on them, it feels like you don’t have a problem with them. (I know it needs a courage & effort to go against the flow.)good news is, she changed at last. (though annoyingly very slowly!)in the end, I started to like Cassia & Xander.of course we have a love triangle. (no surprise there.) which actually I think could’ve been built good, had the potential at least, but actually it was not. (& I blame the plain boring heroine for that.I only care about Ky here & want to see his history & what he would do, what would happen to him.It actually had some great pace in the end & with what happened there, I will not abandon the series!If you like too much Romance & a lot of Poetry, you might like this one. I’m not a romance reader, I'm a child of action fantasy & adrenaline adventures with sub-plot romance.maybe one day, something hit my head to continue this series. (as I've heard book 2 is even slower than this one)but not today, not now.