This book seems to be really polarizing, with people either loving or hating it. I didn’t have super high expectations going in, but I was actually surprised by how much I enjoyed it.I’ve seen a lot of reviews comparing this to FBAA and saying it was too similar. I actually think it was more similar to A Shadow in the Ember… but either way, I felt like they are all a little similar in that they involve vampires and gods and are in the new adult genre, but the storylines and characters are still unique. There are only so many ways to make vampires different and I think this was different enough to still be good.✅ ISOLDE WAS GREAT and I thought she was written as a strong and interesting morally-grey character. You could tell from her mannerisms and the way she spoke that she was actually raised to lead and be a queen.🆗 THE MAIN THING that bothered me about Isolde was her nonstop horniness. Seriously, she was either leaking or aching for like 80% of the damn book❌ IT SEEMED TOO OBVIOUS that Adrian and Isolde had some weird and historical connection. It felt like it was supposed to be this mysterious reveal but to me all the foreshadowing just had me rolling my eyes🆗 I READ THIS FOR the smut and I definitely got some smut 😉 If anything, there was a bit too much smut because it kind of got repetitive after a while✅ ADRIAN WAS SURPRISINGLY not as alpha as I thought he would be, which actually made me like him more. I was worried he was going to be a douche-lord like Knox from Flames of Chaos, but he was very respectful but still macho enough to be sexy❌ UNFORTUNATELY, THE ROMANCE left something to be desired for me. There wasn’t enough build-up or longing between the two of them to make me actually feel like it meant much more than sex. Basically, they got together too quicklyI thought the overall story was entertaining and I read this all in one sitting but it’s definitely not going to be a new favorite of mine. I was in the mood for something smutty and this delivered on that so I’m pretty happy with it.