I love reading, and this is why. This book and books like it are why. How can such a beautiful and enrapturing story that's so filled with life and color be contained within this little thing, filled with paper of black and white? This story, it just came alive. The people, the place, all of it. I was there. This is why I read. The love between Kazi and Jase was so alive and real. You could feel it, hear it, see it in everything they said and did, and I loved that .This book also reminded me of how much I love Kaden. In love triangle situations, my ships always end up sinking, but I was finally okay with that in this book. Everyone was happy, truly happy, and you can tell that they're all where they're meant to be. Lia, Rafe, Kaden, Pauline. Now, this book 1000%, absolutely made me feel an urgent need to go back and reread the Remnant Chronicles books, and I might change my feelings back once I'm in the grips of their lives and their stories, but for now, I'm satisfied. And then whenever I think back on this book, I can always remember that they're happy as they are, and that their lives all worked out for the best. At the end there, I got a bit of an inkling that this may have been dystopian. I could be totally off, but isn't it a bit odd and too coincidental that the title of president would have popped up again? So my idea is that maybe the Ancient Ones were us, but way in the future, and their falling was some sort of disaster, perhaps one of their own making. I was thinking that maybe it was nuclear, but not quite nuclear as we know it. So then the scavengers could have been all crazed because of radiation poisoning. And the dust from the stars could have been some remnant of that nuclear power. I know that's all a bit far fetched, but it's interesting to think about. I don't exactly know how Mary E. Pearson draws out her stories to be so long, but I love it. I've said it before, but there could have been 500 more pages to this book, and I still would have loved every second. Because I was living it. I was apart of their lives, their world. I thoroughly and completely fell into Tor's Watch, and I love that. I love the immersiveness of it all. The vivid lives and colors. This author is a master storyteller who is able to weave the reader into the story itself, and I'm so grateful that I got to experience that for a little while.So thank you Mary E. Pearson. Thank you for writing this world, this entire life that I got to be apart of.__________Reread 2022Once again, this book was amazing. Did not dissapoint. Coming off of rereading The Remnant Chronicles, all the characters at the end meant so much more to me than they did the first read, and I just love them all so much. Especially Kaden!! He was the star of this whole book for the half a page he was there. Literally my favorite character and I'm just SO happy for him and his beautiful family. It couldn't have worked out better.❤️❤️❤️Also Jase and Kazi's story still had me screeching and shaking and laughing and dying, even though I knew what would happen, and THAT is the sign of a good story. I just love this world!