6/5⭐️A definite 6 star read!! I though Dance of Thieves was amazing… but this one topped it all!! It was perfection from beginning to end and I couldn’t be more satisfied with the ending. I absolutely love this duology and Mary E. Pearson just knows how to write good endings!! Especially in this book here!There wasn’t anything this book was lacking! It has an intense and amazing character-driven plot, such an incredible found family, a beautiful romance and character that you’d die for!! Kazi is such an amazing, hot, badass and smart character! She really carried this book and I love love LOVEEEE her so so much! The things she had to go through in this book… I was so scared for her but she fought through all of it. She’s such a strong person and I’m just so glad that she finally got her happy ending that she deserves so so soooo much!!Her connection with Jase was honestly to die for! Even though they were apart for most of the book, you could still feel their love, chemistry and need to be together. This made me therefore enjoy the book even more! Compared to “The Beauty of Darkness” (which is the last book of the prequel series) where the two main characters were also apart most of the book, I really disliked that aspect.. However, Kazi and Jase just have this amazing relationship that somehow made it work and made me pine after them but in a good way (if that makes sense lol).The found family that was created in this book made me so so happy and I was literally crying when Kazi was finally able to find herself be part of a family! It was just so endearing and heartwarming and I love all of the side characters so so much!!It was also fun to see the little cameos of the main characters from the prequel series. It gave a kind of nostalgic vibe to it which I very much enjoyed!The action scenes, political conflicts and in general intense scenes were all so well written! There wasn’t one boring moment in that book and I just love how much the author has improved her writing style from her previous books to this one! It was just way more enjoyable and I couldn’t get enough! I literally flew through this book like it was nothing and I just love that feeling of not being able to stop reading and Mary E. Pearson really provided that feeling in this book!Overall, I’m really going to miss this universe and the characters! It was such an amazing ending to this story and I couldn’t be happier!