I forced myself not to read more than 100 pages a day so I wouldn't finish this book too quickly. I was happy to see David Mitchell going back to the threaded storylines and fantastical diversions that I loved so much with Cloud Atlas after the historical fiction turn he took in The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet.The hardback has a beautiful color and silky pages. :)I'm putting all my thoughts behind a spoiler, in case details ruin your enjoyment of discovery. The book is written in sections, each occurring in a different decade."A Hot Spell" takes place in 1984, and sets up the character of Holly Sykes and quite a bit of the rest of the book."Myrrh is Mine, Its Bitter Perfume" is in 1991 at Cambridge University. Holly is in it but not the focus."The Wedding Bash" from 2004, featuring Holly and her journalist husband."Crispin Hershey's Lonely Planet" is about an author in 2015 who is suffering a bit of a setback after a scathing review. Mitchell plays a bit with narrating voice here, and Hershey goes back and forth talking about himself by name and from first-person. These first four chapters connect directly to one another and seem a cohesive unit. When you get to the next section, it is a much greater leap."The Horologist's Labyrinth" jumps to 2025, with a secret message delivered to an unknown character from another unknown character in Norway. This is where the horologists really get explained and the novel turns into something completely different (but which the author has been working towards all along)."Sheep's Head" takes place in 2043 in a post-oil, post-tech society for the most part. You know how I love my apocalypses."Let's take it one apocalypse at a time."Things I love:The way David Mitchell can throw in words that wouldn't work for other authors: "I hear the boomy scrape of an airplane." Honestly since hearing him give a reading, I hear the entire thing in his voice.The way the author can throw in completely fantastical elements to a scene from reality, such as the Anchorites of the Dusk Chapel of the Blind Cathar of the Thomasite Monastery of Sidelhorn Pass."Characters or places from previous Mitchell novels that find their way into The Bone Clocks. I only marked two, but I know there are seven, if I remember what he said correctly."I've got this cousin, Jason, who grew up in this village in Worcestershire called Black Swan Green." (Black Swan Green)"In my last life I lived on the Dutch Factory in Nagasaki, and practiced with some Chinese merchants." (The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet) (484)"It can't all be misery and postindustrial decay." (168)"A book can't be half fantasy any more than a woman can be half pregnant." (364)ETA: This article made me want to start from the beginning and read all of Mitchell's books again. There is a chart of characters we've seen before. I missed so many!Discussed on Episode 012 of the Reading Envy Podcast.