I-I don't even know how to start. I didn't really expect this book to be my first five-star rating of 2021 because of how long it took me to read it, but I loved it. Every single issue I had with the last book was improved in this one. I cried approximately fifty times, and although a few of the jokes were a bit immature, I only noticed that because someone pointed that out before. I also love how neatly everything wrapped up in the end. I didn't feel like I had been choking down information that was tiring for me to comprehend.This book is the fourth installment of the Heroes of Olympus series and, because of what I have heard about the final book in the series, it will likely be my favorite in the series. This book helped to increase my respect for the series as a whole, and although it is more of an "honorable mentions" series, I can still greatly appreciate it. I think I enjoyed this book the best because it improved upon the three most prominent flaws the series had (in my personal opinion): 1) the pacing, 2) the confusing plot, and 3) the fact that no one would just stop and have fun for a second. ImprovementsFirst of all, the pacing was greatly improved, and I think that is mostly due to the fact that this series really doesn't have to be as long as it is. The writing dragged in the other books, lugging the plot behind it like a sack of potatoes, while in this case, I think everything that happened seemed to be well-timed and more concise, as there were three and a half separate storylines at all times. Secondly, the confusing plot was improved upon, only I don't have much of an explanation for this one. I suppose that Rick Riordan tried less to stuff twenty different elements into one storyline since he had two others to cover...? Lastly, although it wasn't as much fun as I would have liked, most of the characters did manage to settle down and be personal at times. (Okay, but when I say *most* of the characters I mean *most* of the characters. I am absolutely aware of the fact that not *all* of the characters had a good time ANY TIME throughout this book.Some things I liked about this book (there were many):There are going to be tremendous spoilers for Mark of Athena and House of Hades following this icon 🚩 and if you don't want to see them, I suggest you skip ahead until you see the icon again. DON'T READ ANYTHING YOU SEE WHILE SCROLLING UNTIL YOU SEE THE ICON AGAIN! Thank you. 🚩🚩🚩Are they gone yet?Okay, I'll start.-Percabeth in Tartarus: Also this was heartbreaking, it was entirely necessary to the characters and the plot (plus, I actually like being heartbroken). Percy and Annabeth both proved themselves as some of the most worthy and powerful demigods in the series. (And before you say anything, Annabeth survived Tartarus, so yes, I consider her very powerful. Percy did not pull all the weight and neither did she. Although she wouldn't have been able to survive without Percy, he wouldn't have been able to survive without her either. It was a team effort.) I thought their scenes in Tartarus were amazing additions to the plot in general, very entertaining and heartwrenching. Being in Tartarus showcased their strength and their love for each other. Their fall to Tartarus also helped develop other characters because they all realized that they had to step up to the plate and showcase their own power, along with showing their emotional depth.-Nico coming out: Nico's struggles throughout this book and his wanting to be ostracized from the group and Camp Half Blood really helped develop his character into more than just a dangerous little emo kid. The way his innocent crush on Percy was revealed and how Jason reacted and felt the need to protect him after- It just felt so real. I've never loved Nico as much as everyone, but this whole experience made me appreciate him so much more.Okay good I'm done with the spoiler portion.🚩🚩🚩-Hazel: I love how Hazel really stepped up in this book. She took initiative and did what she had to do, even if it meant that she had to hurt herself in the process of saving her friends. She is so powerful and strong in this book and she is now one of my favorite characters. The fact that she got help from Hecate to defeat a giant...we stan Hazel, man.-Leo (and Calypso): Along with Hazel, Leo is one of my favorite characters in this series. He's so funny and charming...and troubled. I was so happy when he found someone and so sad for him when he had to go back for the others and leave her on the island. This is probably controversial, but I really shipped Leo and Calypso. I just...I thought they were so cute together. I did think Calypso was being a bit of a female dog when she first talked to him, but I love how they developed.-Frank: I don't think Frank's physical transformation was entirely necessary, as one does not exactly need to change physically to be more respected. However, I do love how he got the respect from Mars that he deserved and he got a chance to have his own moment and save his friends.In conclusion, this book was literally amazing and although it was shattering, I thoroughly enjoyed it. Even though I wouldn't call this series my favorite, I would recommend it if you liked the Percy Jackson series and enjoy falling for characters.Edit: I just saw a review on Common Sense Media that I would love to quote: “BTW, all of [the homophobes] screaming about a gay character...yet [they] don’t have a problem with all of the “half-blood” children running around out of wedlock discovering half-siblings? Hmmm.”