Part of my "Huge Review Binge 2k15" (aka trying to catch up on reviews I haven't done in the past two years)Date read: December 16th, 2013Date reviewed: July 16th, 2015----------*WARNING* Probably contains spoilers for the Percy Jackson & the Olympians series and the other Heroes of Olympus books. And for this book. Sorry, not sorry.(So it's been a super long time since I read this. Additionally, since then I've also read the 5th book in the series, and the two kind of get mixed up in my head. But I will try not to get them confused.)Ah yes, don't you love it when your author literally ends a book by dumping your favorite characters straight into hell? Well, that's exactly what Rick Riordan did in Mark of Athena, the precedent to The House of Hades. This fourth installment in the series finds Annabeth and Percy trapped in Tartarus and trying to escape. Meanwhile, the other demigods are trying to fight through Gaea's forces and seal the doors of death.Well, having now finished this whole series I can say this is one of the strongest of them. I think part of my enjoyment is that it focuses more on characters from the original Percy Jackson series––mainly Percy, Annabeth, and Nico. My sweet babies. <3There are a lot of Percabeth feels in this book. Goodness gracious, so many. I know I've gushed about this in reviews of the previous books but, they're just such a great couple. I love that they need each other without being completely dependent on one another. They have their own distinct personalities and histories, they're both kickass in their unique ways … and they're just perfect. I love them. And in this book, we really get to see how strong their bond is and how much they've grown. And Nico––Nicoooo! *Mild spoilers* So, I'm sure pretty much everyone knows what the big bombshell about Nico is in this book (and if I recall correctly, the information was leaked before the book even came out) but … yeah, so. Nico is gay! And that's so awesome! Not only because there was finally some LBGT representation in this series, but also, I felt like it made a lot of sense. I don't know if Riordan knew this from the beginning, but regardless, it really works. And I love it. And I love Nico. As for the other characters/demigods, I like them too––well, for the most part. I looove Leo. A lot. Hazel and Frank are both cool, too. I have to say I'm not a huge fan of Piper or Jason and they're both kinda Mary-Sue-ish, but … you know, they're fine. Still, I felt like there was good character development in this book and we get to know all the characters more.I liked Riordan's portrayal of Tartarus and all the obstacles Percy and Annabeth have to face. It's definitely intense and scary, but still with that whacky Riordan flair. And over all, it's a very exciting story. Like all of Riordan's other books, there's a lot going on and it never slows down. For a book that was a huge brick, it didn't feel very long because it all went by so quickly. The Final Word:Love this series, love the book, love the author. Good stuff.~ Flying Kick-a-pow! Reviews ~Pre-Review Ranting under the cut:----------12/16/13:After reading:I CAANNNN'TTTTttt. UGGHhhHh. Just. So many feelings. I can't handle it.Full review coming eventually.-----------Before reading:AAHHH THE COVER, THE COVER! I LOVE IT!!!EEEEEP I'M SO EXCITEDDDD.