I can't believe it!I finally read this book! I've wanted to read it since the first time I saw it on here.And, I'm not disappointed, not one bit!The reason I'm giving this four stars is because while reading I actually felt like the author was very inspired by Harry Potter that her book was infected by the main idea behind it, but it was also completely different and very well executed!The storyline is amazing, I was feeling like crying every time I forced myself to close the book to sleep because I had this thing called work which is useless and couldn't wait to cuddle with it in bed, it just kept on making me more curious and intrigued!But the best thing about this book is the characters!Nathan the main character, is a half black biracial, bisexual witch who is on the run to find his black witch of a father and goes through a lot while on his journey.His voice was so miserable yet very marvelous, I fell in love with him from page one or whatever, the way he described how his life was going at the moment only makes you feel bad for him and more proud of what he becomes, also he is a family man I'm gonna love myself a family chap and an angry little hedgehog, can he get any hotter? No one knows. I hope life is going to be a tad bit soft on him in the rest of the books.ARRAN Have you ever read about the perfect brother who is ready to go through hell and back for his baby brother and then not telling him that life is so shite, then sing him a song, put him to sleep, run his fingers through his hair, and tops it off with a kiss on his forehead for good measures? No? Because it's rare. Here you go, another reason why you should READ THIS BOOKGabriel Blimey. But seriously though, this is how you weave a fictional character and make it believable! Because nobody can be gentle, soft, as straight as the letter S, long-hair-don't-care, wonderful eyes, loves unconditionally, loyal, beautiful, gorgeous, sexy af, posh, Swiss, and Nathan's number one fan. Seriously, what more convincing do I have to do?Rose sweet sweet Rose. I just can't right now. Thank you for understanding.The world in this book is so amazing, I can't get enough of it and I hope the rest of the books are as great as this one.The book is so diverse, it's mind blowing. Also, sexuality is like a normal thing in this book? No one needed to reveal anything or come out of whatever they're imaginary inside, it's just is, no big deal. As simple as what colour your eyes are. As simple as it should be to be honest.Seriously, just read it.