I'M HAVING A GIVEAWAY FOR ALL THREE BOOKS IN THE SERIES AND A TOTE BAG ON MY BLOG SO COME ON OVER AND ENTER!MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListNathan, poor Nathan. He had it bad from the start. He is born to a mother that was a white witch and a father that was a black witch. A lot of his family hated him from birth and wanted him dead. I mean to look at a little baby and want it dead. I'm not saying his mother did, there are things about her you have to find out by reading the book. Nathan had one sister that hated him, but he had a great relationship with his other sister and his brother. They loved him for him and not for his half blood. His sweet grandmother loved him too. The counsel were always having Nathan come in to be assessed to see if he had more of the white gene or the black gene but they never could determine it. I'm telling you though, a lot of the white witches in this book are some evil people. I don't know where they get off calling the black witches evil when they torture the black witches for a good while before they kill them. I mean yeah, you want to do away with anything that is evil but them torturing people if they even have black witch blood is a little much. Hypocrites! I mean me personally would only see fit to torture people that are involved in animal cruelty, pedophiles, elderly abusers, you get my drift. But someone just walking down the lane and you see they are a black witch and your ready to burn them at the stake... um.. no. The freaking white witch bullies should have been tortured. They did evil things to Nathan because Nathan and their sister Annalise were sweet on each other and God forbid two mix witches get together!Nathan ends up with a woman the counsel set him up with when things didn't work out at his home and she puts him in a cage and makes him workout all of the time and work around the place. She does some beatings here and there, but I felt like she didn't hate him as much as she let on. She taught him self defense, martial arts and did some schooling with him. Then the jerks decide to come and take him away again and do some more beatings and mark him as a half blood. One of Nathan's family member dies and he wasn't even told until a month later, he wasn't allowed to see his family again. I really felt sorry for him. There are a few different characters in the book that I liked. I didn't love or hate this book and I am interested in seeing where the rest of the trilogy goes and hopefully things will..um.. look up for Nathan. I mean really, this kid needs a break, there is only so much you can do to a kid before you MAKE them bad!!! *I would like to thank Penguin Random House Books for a print copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.*