It took me a shamefully long time to finish this book for me, because I kept getting distracted by... things... Things I truthfully don't wanna admit. But anyway, onto my review for this book. When I first started reading Half bad, this book was nothing like what I had been expecting, and in truth, this book is in that certain, particular style that I just don't like. The writing style was kinda basic, and it also kind of jumped from first person to second person all the time. In all honesty, this book has a very similar layout to The 5th Wave, and we all know how I felt about that book. However this had better characters and a better story. Significantly better characters and story. Overall, kind of mixed emotions about this book. The story was pretty good, the characters were decent, but it was kind of downgraded by the writing style. This book was good but it wasn't great. However it was decent, and I would say I did enjoy it, I was interested in what was going to happen next. I liked Nathan's character, and the concept was quite interesting. There aren't really that many characters in this though, I liked Arran and Annalise also, didn't like Jessica and Kieran (he was evil) as well as Clay the hunter, and also didn't really like Celia or Mercury even. I liked Gabrielle and Rose though, oh and that Nikita girl was cute. But that's about it. The first third or so of this book is in the past, basically it's just Nathan describing his life before he ended up in the cage. Admittedly though, the story kind of got a little repetitive. There wasn't that much action. But as I said before, I did like the concept. Everything with the White witches and the Black witches was interesting. It was interesting, it had its own unique aspects. However... I do feel the story of this book is A TINY bit cliched. Not this story exactly, but kind of the whole broad concept. However in all honesty, I wasn't super into this story, probably part of the reason I kept getting distracted from it. So in saying that, I didn't get hugely in to this book to say the complete truth. And so, I don't think I'll continue the series. I don't know, maybe I'll pick up the next book, but... probably not. That ending was good, but I just didn't get into the story enough. Sadly this book was really not what I was expecting, but it wasn't bad! It was simply alright, just not my kind of book. Glad I gave it a go though, and again, I definitely wouldn't say it was bad, it's just not the kind of story I like. But nevertheless I'd probably still recommend trying this. If you don't mind this kind of writing style, it is a pretty good story. Unique and well set out, simple but effective. PS I also happened to like Marcus, he was quite fascinating, and I wish we got to learn more about him personally in this book. SPOILERS I just wanted to say I did have a few scenes that I rather liked in this book. That part where Kieran, Connor and Niall attack Nathan and Kieran gives him the BW scars was heartbreaking, poor Nathan. Though otherwise, the story was a little boring, it spent too long in Nathan's past I think. Also what was with Celia? She didn't really have a role honestly. It was good when Nathan finally escaped from the Council, the whole part of him on the run was where it got a bit more interesting at least. But I didn't like Mercury, I knew there was something up with her. I liked Gabrielle though, and Rose was alright. I'm actually unsure if Annalise was telling the truth or whether she was a trap for Nathan to be honest, I'm leaning more towards the trap side but I guess it doesn't really matter. So mean of Mercury for what she did to her though still. But I really liked that bit at the end, when Nathan's father Marcus finally showed up, and he gave him the Three Gifts and all. Marcus was honestly quite cool I'd like to learn more about him, sure he seems evil but I think there's more to the story. The ending was good, I liked it, and it admittedly would set up the next book nicely. Even if I most likely won't be reading it. Spoilers End. So while I moderately enjoyed this book, it didn't blow me away or leave me with a big impression, as stated before I kept getting distracted from it. The book was fine though, the story was good, the characters were decent, the pace was good, overall though just not the kind of book for me. I didn't get hugely into it. The ending was fine, and for me it just feels like a pretty satisfying ending that can stay where it is, with something that leaves the reader guessing, kind of like a short story. This book was alright, but not great. Just not my kind of book is all. That's it. But then again, in saying this, I do kind of want to see what happens. I don't know I'm really unsure. I may try and read the next books at some point, but I don't really want to have to pay for them. I won't be going really out of my way to get the next books, but I do kinda want to give them a try. I am kind of interested to see what happens next, but then, I didn't find this book supremely engaging. I don't know... Real mixed emotions...A 6/10 for Half-bad, that is the appropriate score. I didn't love this book, and admittedly was a tiny bit disappointed by my first impression, but I certainly didn't not enjoy it (sorry about the grammar there). Just wasn't a fan of the writing style or the way the book was set out. But the story was fine, and I'm glad I gave it a try. It was far from a waste of time, it was an interesting and unique little story. This was a decent book. This review's a little short I know, I didn't have a whole lot to say about this book, but this is basically all my thoughts about it.Thank you for reading my review. (Sorry this one took kind of long).