"Of every aspect of the moor, the earth and stone and rain and fire, the wind is the strongest one in Near. Here on the outskirts of the village, the wind is always pressing close, making windows groan. It whispers and it howls and it sings. It can bend its voice and cast into any shape, long and thin enough to slide beneath the door, stout enough to seem a thing of weight and breath and bone." * There are books I like that most people hate. There are books everyone loved, which never appealed to me. And then there is That Book. The one that manages to draw you in from the very first line, and keep you captive. The one that takes simple words and weaves them into a seamless tapestry of colour and feeling. The Near Witch is That Book.If I haven't gotten the message across yet, I loved The Near Witch. I've said it before, and I'll say it again, YA fantasy deserves more attention. This book is a beautifully-written, magical fairy tale that keeps you enchanted from the very first line, right up to the last. And, it gets an extra invisible star (yeah, thanks a lot, Goodreads!) for being a stand-alone.The story starts off vivid and lyrical, redolent of the mystery and isolation of the moors. Victoria Schwab, who has the kind of talent I envy, manages to draw a clear and eerie picture of the village of Near, edging the moors, set in stone and steeped in dogma. "There are no strangers in the town of Near," Lexi says.But there is a stranger in Near, and suddenly, everything Lexi ever knew is turned on its head. The stranger belongs to the dark and windy night, and despite all of Lexi's efforts, she cannot find him at first, even when she knows he's there, and can hear him breath. But the very next day, a child goes missing from his bed, and the already suspicious village of Near points a finger at the stranger. Lexi knows he is not the one, with an instinct she trusts. She can hear the wind calling in the night, if she listens from the corner of her ear. Her little sister tells her that the missing children are calling her to come out and play. And with every missing child, the people of Near get more frantic and look harder for someone to blame. But will they believe Lexi when she discovers who the real culprit is?It's not just the pretty prose that makes The Near Witch such a compelling read. The story is tightly-plotted and the pace of story-telling gradually increases from a mysterious, measured tread to a quick, breathless run to a rousing, pulse-pounding finish. This is children's fantasy at its finest, with a dash of mystery, a dash of magic and a side serving of romance. Victoria Schwab's talent lies in her ability to draw an entire portrait with a few words. She never goes into detailed descriptions of any characters, save the two sisters, Magda and Dreska, and the stranger, Cole. The rest are quick sketches of a few words, but those words convey a wealth of impressions. There is Lexi's mother, struggling through a fog of grief, but there when her daughters really need her. Her uncle Otto, fumbling to find the best way to keep his word to his dead brother and protect Lexi and Wren. Otto was one of my favourite characters in the book; it would be so easy to hate him for being such an over protective, macho fool, but one can see, in brief flashes, his genuine concern for his nieces and his desire to do the right thing for his village. Then there is Bo, cool and somehow evil, lurking on the periphery of this story, but still managing to capture the reader's attention.To be honest, I could just go on about every character in this book— including the dead ones!— each of whom gave me a different vibe. I'm a person who was reared on fantasy, and this book was like my very own gummy bear factory. (Random fact: I don't like chocolate, but I DO like gummy bears!!) The only thing that didn't really wow me the way it was supposed to was the romance. At least at first. Don't get me wrong, I loved Lexi and I loved Cole, and I thought they made a great team, but I was so busy worrying about the villagers targeting Cole and the hunt for the children and the fate of the two sisters, I simply didn't have the emotional energy to spare for true love. Also, I've been told that the cover for this book has not been finalized, but I would like to add my own plea: Please, pretty please, Disney-Hyperion, DO NOT market this awesome fabulous book with this unbelievably hideous cover. It is WRONG and it doesn't convey any sense of the beauty of this book. All in all, my friends, it is time for you to groan and shudder because you know I have found a new book to beat you over the head with. I loved The Near Witch, and as per SoP, it is time for me to zealously ensure that everyone around me does as well!* All quotes in this review are from the ARC and will be checked against a final print edition.Disclosure: I received this ARC from the publishers via Net Galley. No external considerations affected this review.