Reread 2022 - I still despise Tamlin! - I listened to the graphic novel. I love these kinds of audios! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾*******RHYSAND and CASSIAN, I LOVE YOU WITH ALL MY HEART ♥ I mean who doesn't right? THAT COVER! HOLY FECKING SH*T BALLS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!THERE WILL BE SPOILERS!I am so in love with Rhysand! He is NOT an evil dude! He's so freaking cool, hot, bad-@ssed and everything else. I liked the first book well enough but I was hoping this one would get into more of Rhysand's story and it freaking does! At first it's Feyre with Tamlin and it was okay starting out and then I started to get mad at how Feyre was treated like a prisoner. Tamlin treated her like she was some little thing that could break. And even though Feyre has powers of the freaking 7 High Lords and she's an immortal fae with a human heart.... he still treats her like sh*t! She is about to marry Tamlin but she doesn't feel like it's right. Not right at all and she's calling out in her brain to be saved in a sense and bloody hell! ENTER: RHYSAND He just comes in to take her away before she gets married because of that little clause they set up in the first book. She's pretty livid at first and they have some bickering and what not. BUT she soon realizes that Rhysand is there to teach her, not hold her down. Not keep her hidden away to go to balls and boring bullshit. Nooooooooooooooooo... he trains her to read (no she can't read) and to put up her mental walls to block anyone out. He ends up training her in a lot of things and bringing out her powers by getting her mad. Then she goes back to Tamlin and he's all crazy acting and goes off with Lucien but he won't take her with him. I think that was after the second time she went with Rhysand. Who the hell cares.. Anyway, so when Tamlin doesn't take her to tend to some business and leaves her blocked in the manor, she freaks the shit out. Who wouldn't?! Rhysand can feel her through the bond, he sends in Mor to get her out and bring her to him because he can't come and get her in a certain area because of some bullshit thing that will cause a war. Moving on..... From there it's basically piss off Tamlin, it's now all about Rhysand, Feyre and the war they are trying to stop. Also, I love Rhysand's court. They are some really cool fae and what not. The what not being Amren. She is something else entirely that pretty much everyone is afraid of and one day he hopes to break her from her spell and unleash her on the world. Well, if they piss him off enough. No, but really, he does hope to break her from a spell she is under. He's just that nice. Then there is Azriel, Cassian and Mor. They are his bad @ss fighters and so likeable. Hell I loved them all! I love when they go flying and they have all of these powers and are so damn cool! Oh and Mor is his cousin, I think she's his cousin, damn I forgot! Rhysand is the High Lord of the Night Court. But he's not this evil person. Well, okay so he will torture his enemies if he has too, but who cares. He is very powerful as well. And lo and behold he has a town that he lives in called Velaris, I think it's 5oo years that he has kept the place hidden and protected people. Gee, imagine that. Anyway, so King Hybern wants to bring the walls down and bring war to the humans and all of Prythian. He just has to get these last few pieces to put this thing together and then do something. I can't tell you EVERYTHING! The book is large and it didn't get boring at all, I mean everything involving Rhysand and his people were awesome. He even made Feyre a part of his court as well. He had his people training her to fight and he did as well. Just know, there is a lot of cool stuff going on in the book. Evil beings and creatures and even some awesome revelations. We have to have those right :-) The ending make me want to scream and scream. I got a headache if that counts! It's sad, but there will be some shit going down in the next one. And... um.... Sarah J. Mass... can you put out the next book next month.... please! I leave you with an EXCERPTMY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List