Seven of my favorite Bookish Villains in one BookTube Video!The Written Review I am broken and healing, but every piece of my heart belong to you.Hole. Lee. Shh. This sequel is stunning. I have not been this entertained and enthralled with a series since my high school Twilight craze. And I realized—I realized how badly I'd been treated before, if my standards had become so low. If the freedom I'd been granted felt like a privilege and not an inherent right.How could so much happen in one book? How am I in love with every character she creates? Why am I wasting my time writing a review when I have book 3 on my end table just waiting for me? (come to me Mirrrrrandaaaaa. Readdddd meeee *deep breaths* I must be strong. I must tell the world so they can read and join us.)I don't even know where to begin.  I can't. I literally can't summarize over 620 pages into on cohesive review. There's too much that happened and (whew) I am just wholly overwhelmed with everything.We last left Feyra as a broken shell of a girl - she survived trials and the hardships but her mind wasn't the same. Tamlin deals with this through a  cuddle and coddle  method but her fears won't go away. Then, on the day of her wedding - someone saves her and despite her vehement disapproval - she realizes that she's in need of rescuing. He thinks he'll be remembered as the villain in the story. But I forgot to tell him that the villain is usually the person who locks up the maiden and throws away the key. He was the one who let me out. I love how Sarah J. Maas is able to just spin together these inspiring and unforgettable characters. Take the Suriel for example - he has what, maybe 10 pages of the entire book? I absolutely adore him. He's such a delightful gossiper that I'm desperately hoping for a reappearance in the third book.  Or the Weaver - such a mind-blowingly creepy character - who will (undoubtedly) be long-standing in my memory. She only appears once but that moment her face is revealed - wow. Just wow. And the big reveal? I nearly died. (Fair warning. It's a big one - if you've read already - click it. If you haven't - STOP and pick up the book already)  I could not have imagined a better way to find out Rhysand was her mate.  I can just picture the Suriel going: Ohmigosh. There's my bestie. Be cool. Be. Cool. HEY GURL! OVER HERE! I'M ALREADY CAUGHT TIME TO CHIT -  *GASP* Rhysand? Sick? Not on my watch. Here's your incredibly-specific-instructions on how to save your mate's life. . . Oops? Did I say MATE?!? Somebody had to say something - this ship needed to sail.  Get it gurrrrrrl!Okay. I've said enough. Book 3 is calling my name and I'm sure as hell not going to keep it waiting.“To the people who look at the stars and wish, Rhys."Rhys clinked his glass against mine. “To the stars who listen— and the dreams that are answered.”  The 2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge - A book about mental health.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads