"When you spend so long trapped in darkness, you find that the darkness begins to stare back." Yall... this book... this book and its hype... this book and its hype and all it's spoilers; had me worried. On top of all that I feared that this book, all 600 plus pages, would suffer a massive case of second book syndrome. I'm so freaking happy to finally say that this book was AMAZING! As I do with most my on-going series reviews I'm going to keep this review spoiler free. Since this book was broken up in several sections I'm going to basically break my review down by that. A Court of Mist and Fury is the second book in the A Court of Throns and Roses series. This book starts off right where ACOTAR ended. Feyre, however, isn't recovering well from what happened to her under the mountain. It doesn't help that Tamlin basically avoids talking about it at all cost and he insist that she never leaves the estate. Being trapped in the house just wedding planning, with no friends, no family, and waiting for the moment when Rhys comes to claim her for their deal. Feyre is a broken girl the first part of this book. Not knowing where she stands or where she wants to be. So many things happen in the first half of this book, all leading up to Rhys finally coming to get her. That's all I'm really going to say about the first section of this book. The next part of this book we finally get a lot of the answers we've been dying for! Answers about Rhys and why he is the way he is, we finally get to see the Night Court, we get to find out so much history on all the other courts, and oh so much more. We are also introduced to so many new side characters... Which easily became some of my all time favorites. Mor, Amren, Cassian, and Azriel brought everything to this story! I loved that Rhys decides to surround himself with the best of the best, say F the people who don't see females as badass, and puts two fierce girls as part of his inner circle. Cassian and Azriel, be still my beating heart. I loved these two. What interesting characters. Each with such a unique back story. This part of the book was all about build up and setting the stage for the ending. This is why it took me awhile to get through this book... but trust me get through it, its so wroth it.The last part of this book... God give me strength! I don't know how I'm even going to get through the rest of this review. This section of the book was everything I ever wanted! There is action, suspense, romance, history, and twist. Everything that was building up from the first parts were perfect set up for this to be a big bang. There were also so many things that I thought were minor details in the first book that turned out to be huge reveals in this one. I was also so worried that the "love triangle" aspect still hanging in the air that it would end up ruining things for me. I can't not address it, and I swear it's not a spoiler, but all the romance in this is PERFECT. It's also why this book is so much bigger than the first, because it's so full of sexy fun times. This book is hot, HOT! I really don't get how this book is still categorized as Ya, I think this jumped right into NA. Seriously, so yummy! I have for sure gotten on the same ship as everyone else.The ending. So much happens. It was so amazing. Shit hits the fan! I did not see it coming. I knew one thing that was going to happen, because you can't not see it, but the rest of it had me on the edge of my seat. I kept screaming "WTF" The whole time. Like really, what just happened?!?! Those last two chapters though. Those last two chapters were.... Lord! Oh and that last paragraph! That last sentence!!!! Lets just say it was the most epic!!! I wish my review was a little more detailed, and sorry if it's all over the place, but that's how this book made me feel. A messy, disorganized, and a hot mess. I can't wait till book three.