1/2 starThis was a buddy read with these awesome ladies:If you think I'm being unfair and this book is all kinds of awesomeness, Jenn is your girl. And if you agree with me on this series being overhyped for no apparent reason, Mary is our girl. Mary and i agree on so many things, it's ridiculous! First of all, this is marked as "High Fantasy"? You have got to be kidding me. Brandon Sanderson and J.K. Rowling are somewhere sipping tea, and laughing at this bullshit. So, I've skimmed through the entire book, i still have no clue why this is so popular. -A Court of blah blah is boring as hell. -Characters are infuriating, and tiresome. They possess no unique or remarkable qualities. Quite on the contrary actually. I think we all agree, it's just plain wrong if a middle-aged man tries to get into a teenager's pants. But it's all hotness if you stretch the age gap from decades to centuries? -Sex scenes were laughable AND cringeworthy. I call this erotica for children. Don't look at me, I'm not the one who wrote it. -The writing was monotonous. I don't even want to think about this.-Plot... was there any? Whatever it was, i found it painfully predictable. -Surely I can't be the only one who finds the term "mate" utterly ridiculous. I was dying laughing every time it was mentioned. Just couldn't take it seriously. Sorry, not sorry. There also seems to be a new trend in SJM's book. I wonder what goes on in her head. I bet something like this:  hum my snowflake already have 12 love interests, how can I possibly add another to this never ending list? Oh, there is a clever idea! If he is her "mate" no one will dare question me. *pats her own back* I really am a genius!-I called all of those "shocking" twists before the book was even out. Deep down i was hoping this would prove me wrong, but sadly i remain right. This is the most overrated piece of crap I've ever attempted to read. I mean do people really find this appealing? Oh, well, i tried. But there is a good news!! This book was a gift which means i didn't spend a penny on this, but my local bookstore is willing to trade this for Gemina. I was going to write a long ass rant about how terrible this book is, but i just don't have the time. Gotta go pick up my baby! Hanna, don't disappoint me, girl. Here i come. UPDATES:What's with everyone "snarling" all the time? Who has an ebook? Someone look up how many times the word "snarl" was used. Someone actually checked, and it was used 50+ times!! I mean, you do the math. _______________________Oh, give me a fucking break already. The main character be like, I live in a castle with my super hot fiancé, who LOVES THE SHIT OUT OF ME! Ugh!! And now I'm super beautiful and strong and shit. COULD MY LIFE GET ANY WORSE!?! Oh my god, she is so annoying. If I were Tamlin, I'd throw her ass back on the streets. About Rhysand, he hasn't shown up yet. But if he sees any potential in this chick... I don't know man.