Ok, my only reference for Dune was the 1984 movie with Kyle MacLachlan. And, honestly, it was the main reason I've always wanted to read this book.Ohmygod look what that fake-looking piece of plastic shit is doing to poor MacLachlan's nose? How was he even able to act with that thing pushing his nostrils to the side of his face? I can't stop looking at it!Anyway.I remember loving that movie when I was young. Ahhhh. I honestly didn't remember much about it other than it was sorta weird, there were giant worms, a bunch of people had glowing blue eyes, and Sting was in it.After listening to this audiobook, I decided to rewatch the movie and relive the good times. Wow. Just wow. What in the holy hell did I just watch? Because whatever it was, it certainly didn't have much to do with the actual book. There were some fucking weird changes that they made to the movie that really didn't do anything for the plot. Like that gross dude with the shit in his face that flew around in that goofy air suit?In the book, he's just a fat dude!And that thing they do where they all have drain plugs attached to their hearts?Not in the book, either!In fact, none of that fucknut crazy/gross sci-fi shit is in the book.Blowing shit up with their voice guns? Nope.Bald Bene Gesserits? Nope.Bugs with butthole mouths? Nope.Mentat's with clip-on eyebrows who drink juice that gives them herpes lips? Nope.Captain Jean-Luc Picard going into battle with a pug? Fuck no!The list goes on and on...Not that it should matter. But it does! Because I was expecting something realllyreallyreally different, and if you go into this (like me) you may end up...well, not disappointed but maybe shocked? Having said that, I think the book was definitely better. There was no reason for ass-mouth monsters or oily rock stars in weird rubber underwear. It just makes a lot more sense the way Herbert wrote it. It's a magic is science tale set in space with an incredibly interesting look at how politics and religion can hold hands with each other and make war babies. I can see why people rave about it. It's honestly an incredibly insightful novel.You know, if you're into that sort of thing... A little dense, but worth it. But dense. That's worth saying twice because this thing is massive and you may get lost in it if giant word monsters aren't your jam when it comes to reading. I listened to the Audible version which is 21 HOURS (and 2 minutes!) long and might be the way to go for anyone looking for the easy way out.And I am ALWAYS looking for the easy way out.