4 ⭐A word of warning as you venture out to peruse the veritable smorgasbord of delectable reviews for this Sci-Fi/Fantasy Classic!Be sure to do your Du(n)e diligence. Be wary of key phrases such as “I don’t usually read Fantasy/Sci-Fi”, “Too many made-up words” or “I’m just reading before the movie comes out”. These individuals have come down with a bad case of bandwagonitis and any self-respecting Sci-Fier-er cannot count on their reviews being in any way accurate or beneficial!As I’m firmly placed in the 3rd category of Blockbuster-hungry fools, I’d advise you to immediately move on to another review, there’s nothing of value here. In fact, I won’t actually be writing a review, I’ll simply address one simple question:What is Dune?Dune is sand as far as the eye can see.Dune is the sphincter opening.... of a desert tent.Dune is thirst. The distillate esthers of reclaimed waste; the sour effluvia of humanity. It is greedily, no… joyously sipping your overweight Uncle’s recycled knacker sweat in a desperate effort to quell the rapid loss of your own bodily fluid. Dune is the Water of Life; Molecular Modification; a Transcendental Trinocular Acid Trip. The [Boy] with Kaleidoscope Eyes experiencing a Psychokinesthetic extension of self.Dune is the middle-aged man who, on hearing praise for his young sons, must always exclaim "I taught them everything they know!"Dune is an unsettling change in POV turned familiar, insightful friend.Dune is saying very little with a great many words.Dune is Pardot Kynes, micro-ecology, patience and long-term goals.Dune is the Shai-Hulud; the scandalous straddling of a worm.Dune is religion, planted and shaped to the needs of the latest conquests and heraldic symbols.Dune is the Ghost Wind of the JihadDune is Alia, is Stewie Griffin.Dune is Feyd-Rautha, is Commodus playing Gladiator.Dune is a feint, within a feint, within a feint.Dune is the house Atreides, is the Greek house Atreus.Dune is the Kwisatz Haderach; the Messiah; a planet afflicted by a Hero.Dune is power and wisdom at the cost of humanity; Friendship lost to worship.
”Everything he touched brought death and grief… it was like a disease that could spread across the universe… How little the universe knows about the nature of real cruelty!”