Man oh man. This series... The Seven Realms series definitely makes my favorites list!Read this series!I loved everything about this book.I loved that Lucious could finally find some peace... although it was pretty disappointing to hear that he was the one that betrayed Alger.. I always liked Lucious and it was just sad to hear about that. At the same time though we learned that Hanalea DIDN'T betray him, so there's that. The ending with Han brining her as a wolf to meet with Alger was just perfect.I loved all of the parts with Crow and Han in this book, where as I kind of lost my patience with Crow in the past books. Especially before I knew who Crow really was. Han definitely couldn't have survived without him in this book. With the information about the underground tunnels, the treasure, everything. The part when Crow was trying to switch in and out with Han while he was being tortured had me in tears. He had already been tortured to death once, yet he tried to help Han as much as he could.I definitely didn't see the whole ending with Nightwalker happening. I knew that he hated Wizards so it's not crazy to think he had been killing them all... I guess I just never realized how badly he just wanted to marry Raisa more for the position than for her. I actually did think he had real feelings for her.. maybe because of their past. I was SO angry at the end after EVERYTHING that was happening.. he seriously had the nerve to try and kill Raisa. I was so happy when Night Bird took him out. Of course, I also teared up when she died. She was so young, but I'm happy that she could die in honor. I'm not really surprised that only Micah survived out of the Bayar family. I do feel a LITTLE bit of pity for him.. even though I still don't really like him. What did you all think about the news of Dancer being a Bayar? I'm happy that Willo came forth and showed the council what kind of trash Gavan really was. Of course, I'm thrilled that Han and Raisa are finally together. I was getting so angry with Raisa's father and grandmother when they were acting like they would kill him if Raisa thought about marrying him.. then Dancer explained what he knew about the amulet they gave Han. Dancer is a hero. The way he can connect with nature and the way he can work with amulets and make his own flash craft is amazing! I love him <3Such an amazing series! Will definitely read more by Cinda Williams Chima in the future!