That feeling when you finish an incredible seriesbut then you realize you have to say goodbye  Mix the previous images and you have me. In the middle of the night. Trying to stay awake. Stomach grumbling with hunger.It's the best feeling ever!“History is written by the victors. The truth is, the villains were less villainous, and the heroes less heroic, than you’ve been told.”A thousand years ago, Alger Waterlow fell in love with Hanalea, the Queen of the Fells. But their love was doomed from the start. Betrayed, tortured and imprisoned in an amulet, Alger was demonized by history. He became the Demon King, and Hanalea the brave warrior that rid the world of this evil. But history has its way of repeating itself. Raisa ana'Marianna is now the Queen of the Fells, and her reign is more fragile than ever. She has to prevent the clans from turning against the wizards while an enemy from the south is ready to march and everyone questions the 17 years old queen's capability of rising up to the challenge. And she eventually has to marry someone for political reasons and ignore her heart that beats for Han Alister, the only person the clans and the wizards hate with a loathing passion and may be responsible for heinous crimes. Han Alister on the other hand is determined to marry Raisa, even if that means allying with untrustworthy people and trying to find a mythical armory with weapons of terrific potential, while everyone accuses him of murder. Will Han and Raisa manage to save the queendom without sacrificing their love in the process?“I am a Gray Wolf queen. We have never been graceful losers. And so, I do not intend to lose. I will fight you until the last breath leaves my body. You will not take me alive.”I love fantasy. It's always been my favorite genre, and books like The Crimson Crown are the reason why. You can close your eyes and picture seiges and secret tunnels under the mountains and battles and illicit kisses under the brilliance of the moon. You can weild a sword like a warrior even though you've never seen one up close, you can feel the magic burning in your fingers waiting to be unleashed even though you're a mundane, you attend meetings that determine the fate of a nation you've never heard of, and you can do all these things because one person's pen is more powerful than a wand. People like Cinda Williams Chima are my heroes.In The Crimson Crown the stakes are higher than ever, and I am so proud that both Han and Raisa rose up to the circumstances. Politics, war and magic, adventure and romance, The Crimson Crown is a blend of everything you could wish for in a YA fantasy book! The characters are not good or evil, they're always somewhere in between. Everyone wants to protect the people he or she is responsible for, from the Demonai warriors to wizards and council members and simple soldiers. Of course you'll hate some of them for their decisions, for messing with your heroes, but you can understand why they act this way, and for me that is a huge achievement. Take Micah, for instance. I still can't make up my mind about him because he tried to sink my ship many times, but I can't label him as a villain and that's kind of frustrating. Hating him would be easier.“Complicated. And yet—simple. They were like two pieces of a failed star, drawn together by a shared history and a memory of illicit kisses.”At first I was cautious of shipping Han and Raisa because they've proven that they will kiss anyone with a set of lips (is there a thing such as kissing addiction? Raisa could be suffering from it, just saying) but I was pleasantly surprised by the way their relationship developed. Raisa stood up for Han even when the entire world was against him, she put her faith in him and supported him, while Han did everything in his power, fought enemies and allies to secure a future with her. So yes, I ended up shipping them. Hard. With butterflies and giggling and all that stuff.“But I don't want your throne.""Then what do you want?""You.”I didn't cry during the entire series, but I did cry in the last two pages. It was the most suitable way to finish a story that started when two lovers were torn apart a thousand of years ago. Cinda Williams Chima, you are a true sorceress!