4.5 StarsHoly shh—Mother of Witches, this book is going straight to my TOP READS OF 2020 list!!!!!I know, bold statement. I might be tempted to revoke my claim later, but for now can we talk about how bloody PHENOMENAL and REVOLUTIONARY this terrifying wtichy culty puritanical tale is???? Yes, this book is the sh*t I want everyone to rave about.This is the story of a cursed child born and raised into a society ruled by (holy) men who abuse their power and hide under the protective blanket of law and religion to absolve them of any wrongdoings.Bethel is a secluded community where the Prophet’s power is absolute and polygamy is the norm. It’s surrounded by the Darkwood, home of Lilith and her coven of witches whose tragic history many years prior led to their condemnation.We follow Immanuelle, with the help of the Prophet’s son who is skeptical of his father’s teachings and beliefs, Ezra, trying to save the townspeople from an impending doom, a revenge curse casted by the witches and accidentally activated by Immanuelle herself.Blood, blight, darkness, slaughter.While doing so, we are exposed to the many injustices against women and just how corrupted the Prophet and his league of apostles are. There are themes of race, gender, poverty, complex family dynamics, witchcraft, and religion blended into the story.One of the many emotions that burns inside of me when reading books like this is RAGE. Not towards the book, but towards all the horrible characters who invoke my sense of solidarity towards those they’ve wronged, especially the women. Burn, let them burn!!!My rating is purely selfish (driven by my love for Ezra 🙈). The last 30% was nail bitingly intense. The fate of our characters hanged in the balance. I was ready to raise hell and make sure the rating would suffer just as much if anything were to happen to him.My rating also doesn’t mean that the book is perfect. In fact, there are a few things that maybe weigh more to you—from the slightly generic characterisation to the incomplete world building and magic system. All that aside, this book restored my faith in YA.To be a woman is to be a sacrifice.The Year of the Witching is a gripping and powerful debut filled with horror and macabre recommended for fans of dark (feminist) fantasy, religious cults, and witches tearing down the patriarchy. Forget my poor attempt at a review and go read the book!!!!(Read as an Audiobook)