The Year of the Witching was pitched as being inspired by The VVitch, so perhaps it's on me for allowing my expectations to climb sky-high due to the association with one of my favorite movies of all time. The VVitch is disturbing and unsettling and claustrophobic; The Year of the Witching is standard YA fantasy fare, and this despite the fact that it is not YA fantasy, but adult. Immanuelle is a character I struggled to get a grasp on, and perhaps that is because she is so...generic, almost as though, rather than an actual person, she's just a stand-in and mouthpiece for the various themes and ideas about gender and race that are heavy-handedly hammered through the narrative with zero subtlety. Similarly, the love interest, Ezra was milquetoast and bland; how convenient it is that despite his upbringing in this super patriarchal world he's magically a Good Guy and Rational Thinker. His romance with Immanuelle felt completely shoehorned into a narrative where it didn't belong.There are some brief scenes and lines where the narrative starts to verge on horror, but these are few and far between, so the book as a whole never quite gets there, never reaches that apex of dread that The WWitch manages so easily. Oddly, the stakes never felt high enough, even though the stakes are literally death by plagues, but maybe this is just because I didn't care about any of the characters very much. The main thing this book has going for it is its readability; I sped through it and generally enjoyed my time reading it, even if I had issues and was sorely disappointed. The writing is fine, the plot comes together just fine, and it's a decent enough book, but it had so much unused potential, discarded in exchange for standard fare YA romance and a generic protagonist. But part of this is on me, for having some very specific expectations, and I can't blame the book for not meeting those, since it is clearly aiming to be something very different from what I had expected. Since it was successful in fulfilling its own aims and it never bored me, it gets a 2.5 star rating from me!