I went into this one with some hesitation as when I looked at my friends reviews, a grand total of two of them seemed to like it and everyone else didn't (some disliked it quite a bit). Still, I received it as a Christmas gift and who am I to pass on a free Japanese novel?After I got to the half way point, I had to agree with a few things I saw many reviewers commenting on; the book is repetitive and that it’s overly sentimental, both of which are negatives for me. Now when I say overly sentimental, I mean the book will pull out any trick to get an emotional reaction from you, short of a child cancer patient caring for a sick kitten. The book is designed to try to get you to cry. My wife is a big fan of Japanese and Korean dramas and this feels like the novel equivalent. Comedy and melodrama mixed, wanting you to either laugh, cry or simply hope things will work out because we want our melancholy to be mixed with joy. As for repetitive, the book, while a novel, is in many ways really just four short stories that are essentially variations of the same set up and (to a degree at least) the same conclusion. When looking up the author I discovered that he was a play writer, which does not surprise me in the slightest. The book really is a play in novel format down to the entire book taking place in the same room (one of the time travel rules is that you can't leave your seat).Now, those two complaints aside... honestly, I kind of liked it. This is by no means a great novel, but I found the time travel rules fairly amusing (and frustrating, but it kind of delighted me in that regard as well). Also, I liked the character of Kazu. As a former barista I delighted in her character. A customer comes in and pisses off a ghost and gets herself cursed? Well, offer the ghost some coffee. The ghost is just an annoyance and the customer should have been focusing on the coffee and leaving the ghost alone anyway (This really is how 90% of baristas who work the night crew would act, I assure you. You did something stupid, we would note it for future stories and possibly even post a snarky sign telling customers not to do the stupid thing again).Maybe it's not great, maybe it's more sentimental than a Spielberg movie aiming for an Oscar, but overall, I personally found a lot to like. Maybe it just caught me in the right mood... but I'll give it 3/5 stars