This book reminds me of an old Italian car, perhaps an Alfa Romeo, or a 1970s Ferrari.On the surface it looks great, but when you start it up... oh dear. At best the poor thing limps along well under the speed limit, an ominous cacophony of clunking sounds and grinding noises issuing from under the hood.I was expecting much more as this is a book that has a lot of fans.I can see why - the central concept is a nice one, and the stories are cute, in a way that is quite charmingly Japanese. In an old cafe, unchanged for decades, you can order a cup of coffee that will take you into the past. There is a catch, however. You can't leave the cafe while you are time travelling, and you can only stay in the past for as long as it takes for your coffee to go cold.Nice concept yeah? I think so too. But beyond this surface charm, well, things aren’t so slick.Mechanically, from a storytelling and writing point of view,  Before the Coffee Gets Cold needs a complete overhaul.It could be the translation, but this is a very clunky book. I managed fifty-odd pages before the repetition of previously revealed information, forced dialogue and ham-fisted exposition caused the narrative engine to seize up on me. I tried to coax myself along, taking a break from the novel for a day, before coming back and easing it into gear again, but within a few pages I was back where I had been when I first gave up - bemusedly standing next to a smoking clunker of a book, wondering how so many people could love it.Apparently, this book was written as a play first, which could explain why so much of it feels so over-explained and bluntly delivered. Much of what I found annoying could fill a role as stage directions in a performance piece, but it really jars in a novel. The fact that there time travellers must abide by a number of rules gets mentioned maybe ten times in the first section of the book, and the rules themselves get repeated so often that they become mantra-like.This could work in a performance where the audience doesn’t have the script in front of them, but in a novel it feels as though the author is assuming their readers are morons who can’t recall the events of a few sentences prior.Of course, I didn't actually finish this book - the narrative motor was never going to get me to the end - so perhaps things improve in the later stories. I doubt it though, and there was no way I was going to make it past page fifty.  Before the Coffee Gets Cold gets a lot of love here on Goodreads (so I kind of feel like I’m publicly kicking someone’s puppy) but it really wasn’t what I hoped for. In all honesty by the time the pot of tea I made when I sat down with this book had gone cold I had already decided to abandon it and start reading something else.1.5 repetitious rules (did I mention there are rules? There are rules. Important rules. Shall we go over them again? THEY ARE IMPORTANT, DON’T FORGET THEM etc. etc.) out of five.