To give you an understanding of where this review is coming from, I'm a 1st-generation Japanese-American, bisexual, and non-binary. I was really disappointed with this book. (And yes, I knew that the book wasn't really a Mulan retelling going into it, so my disappointment has nothing to do with the marketing. But the marketing was crap.)1. There are a whole bunch of historical inaccuracies. And before you yell "But it's fantasy!" understand that this isn't an alternate Japan. It's historical Japan, with real historical people and places. The only thing that makes this fall under the fantasy genre is that there's a little magic thrown in, which btw Ms. Ahdieh doesn't explain at all. We don't ever learn how this magic system works, who all has magic and who doesn't, what the limits of the magic are, etc. But I'm getting off-topic. My point is, people who have no idea what they're talking about are praising this book for the historical research, and it's frustrating. Yeah Ms. Ahdieh learned some things about feudal Japan, but there's also a lot she messed up, everything from ridiculous character names to mentions of things that didn't exist in Japan until 100s of years later than when the story is set.2. I could happily go 20 years without reading another book involving cross-dressing written by a cis author. These books almost never consider trans/non-binary people, and keep enforcing crappy binary norms all over their novels. I'm so sick of it. If you're trans/non-binary, be aware this book has a lot of parts that might hurt you. And before you yell "But it's historical!" go do some research because trans/non-binary people have existed everywhere all throughout history. Yes the language and culture is different from how it's treated in modern Japan or modern America, but you can write a historical book that challenges some ideas about the notion of a gender binary.3. Besides trans/non-binary erasure, this book also has bi erasure. (None of Ms. Ahdieh's books have any LGBTQIAP+ characters to my knowledge, which is annoying, but that's just my personal opinion.) However, there's a part in this book where it makes no sense at all not to acknowledge bisexuality. This is a slight spoiler: When the love interest boy "discovers" the cross-dressing protagonist is a girl because he accidentally sees her boobs (which btw is all sorts of problematic and harmful from a trans perspective), she kisses him literally a second later. And he kisses her back. If he thought she was a boy this whole time, and is kissing her literally a second after he sees she has boobs...that suggests he had some sort of feelings for her when he thought she was a boy, right? So he's probably somewhere on the bi spectrum? But this is never discussed or even mentioned once in the whole book. It's completed ignored, and this boy's bisexuality is erased. 4. When will authors stop writing things like "tabi socks", "chai tea", etc.? Tabi are socks. When translated, you're basically saying "socks socks." It's obviously done to make certain westerners understand, but isn't it your job as a writer of historical fiction to convey ideas through context? You don't need to resort to this. Crap like this makes it clear the book isn't written for Japanese-Americans like me, who should be the first people you consider when writing a Japanese story in English. Related, I hate when "foreign" words are italicized in books. Especially when this is a Japanese character in Japan. These words aren't foreign to her, or to me. It's just another thing that tells me this book isn't written for Japanese people.5. I know some people call Ms. Ahdieh's books feminist, but I don't really agree. I don't know if any of them even pass the Bechdel test. This book in particular has a cast of mostly men. There's one girl who does absolutely nothing in the story except exist for the lusty male gaze of the protagonist's brother, and then she dies in order to provide motivation for the brother to seek revenge. Can we please put an end to that sexist and dehumanizing trope? Please?I can't speak for all Japanese-American/bi/non-binary people, and I understand that others might have different opinions. But I personally can't recommend this book. I'm going to go search for a book by an LGBTQIAP+ Japanese author to cleanse me of these icky, uncomfortable, and hurt feelings I got from reading this book.