Don’t get discouraged by my 3 stars. The book is enjoyable, and I’ll definitely read the sequel. However, if I compare it against books I’ve rated 4 stars, it doesn’t hold up.But first, I have to say the premise is fantastic. Set in a fantasy version of feudal Japan? A girl, dressing like a boy to infiltrate a murderous gang and to spy on them? How much better could it possibly get?There is a lot to like about our protagonist, Mariko. She has book smarts—inventing bombs and smoke grenades by using her chemistry knowledge and improvising with the limited materials she has—but when it comes to pursuing her goals and manipulating situations to her advantage, she makes quite a few messes and questionable decisions along the way. This all feels relatable and rings true given her upbringing and experience.Unfortunately, the plot jumps too quickly and with no logic at certain points—Mariko going from fighting for her family to actively fighting against them in a heartbeat, the clan accepting Mariko at a point when it doesn’t make any sense, etc. We also see hints of magic, but the system is completely undeveloped and unexplained. Background characters are flat. Mariko’s father, for instance—all his lines about valuing profit more than human life felt almost cartoonish. Related to the same point, the whole criticism of the feudal system felt heavy-handed and simplistic, while there was a lot of potential for nuance.I think nuance was the one thing I really missed in this book. Everything was too easy. All problems were resolved too cleanly. Everything was too black and white, almost like in a children’s book. Wouldn’t it have been more compelling if the Black Clan had really tried to assassinate Mariko, and she understood and accepted their reasons and found her place among them in spite of that? Or if Mariko’s fiancé had turned out to be a decent person, actually wanting to help her? Or at least halfway decent? As it is, there is no reason for internal conflict because all choices are way too easy. All problems come from misunderstandings, and once those are resolved, no conflict is left.But in spite of its drawbacks, the book is a pleasant read and I’ll check out the second installment.