I'd forgotten exactly how wryly amusing Clarke's style can be. It's good to read her again, this time in short story form."The Ladies of Grace Adieu" -- A companion piece to Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell, featuring Jonathan and Arabella Strange, but only tangentially about them. This is sly and a little creepy; a subtle tale of female revenge and male cruelty/fear."On Lickerish Hill" -- A quirky spin on the "Rumpelstiltskin" tale, in dialect with 17th century spelling (which, at first, was a bit of a challenge to read). "Mrs Mabb" -- It didn't turn out how I feared it might."The Duke of Wellington Misplaces His Horse" -- A little campfire story. Set in the world of Gaiman & Vess's Stardust, but all it really has in common with it is the setting of Wall."Mr Simonelli or the Fairy Widower" -- I liked how Simonelli deals with his problems. Clarke is very clever in how she hints at Simonelli's secret heritage and shows aspects of it throughout while still having him behave properly for the type of person he thinks he is. But there's also a very creepy aspect to the story in the awful things that happen to the young women. Of course, it is rather the stuff of fairy tales--the villain has to be villainous...still, I found some of it too disturbing to enjoy."Tom Brightwind or How the Fairy Bridge Was Built at Thoresby" -- Entertaining with a bit of naughtiness. Tom reminded me a bit of Peter Pan, but more charming and without the fear of getting mixed up with women. I liked David, the doctor--one of those nice guys who has questionable friends and still somehow retains his niceness. I very much liked how the bridge turned out."Antickes and Frets" -- A bit like the Duke of Wellington story in reverse. I didn't really care for the characterisation of Mary, Queen of Scots."John Uskglass and the Cumbrian Charcoal Burner" -- Quirky in the way that old folk tales can be. Not what I would've expected a story featuring Uskglass to be, but it was quite entertaining. I wish Clarke would write a whole book about Uskglass.If you've already read Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell and haven't read this yet, I recommend it. It has the same style and voice as the novel. If you've been intimidated by the sheer size of JS&MN but are curious, reading this will give you a taste of what you'll find there. If you are a fan of 19th century British classics and are considering a foray into the fantasy genre, I recommend Clarke's work.I do enjoy Clarke's voice. I've formerly described her writing style and subject matter as "Jane Austen meets JK Rowling"; but now that I've read Terry Pratchett (his magic users live in a sort of nebulous fantasy past that feels a lot like the 19th century), I think it's more like "Austen meets Pratchett." And, by the way--Charles Vess' illustrations add some lovely whimsy to the book.