Honestly, I waited for this book for so long and am slightly conflicted with how I feel about this story as a whole. I have never rated a SJM novel this low before. I was sometimes forcing myself to read it - like it was some university homework . But I also liked how she took this series to an entire new level- I can tell there was a lot of research done.Pros: 1. Ruhn and his love story. That storyline between day and night was the most surprising and delightful thing out of this book. The way these two have a hold on me right now. That ending elevator scene was one of the best in the book!! I was here for it!!!2. The secondary characters and the otters awwwww3. THE ENDING- what else can I say about that!!Cons:1. The plot was just not there for me. I could not feel any major stakes for the characters throughout. They were all fighting a fight that they all barely seemed to even want to be apart of. The majority of the novel was just everyone talking all the time and info dumping loads and loads of things. I genuinely got a headache reading it- like my head still hurts. And also not to mention, the amount of new characters being added. Everyone is so powerful, everyone has this power and blah blah blah- like no one felt special at all because there was every kind of type of being. It’s like SJM took every mythical creature to exist and dump them in 800 pages.2. The POVS were too much. Honestly I love a good multiple POV novel but this was just over doing it. Tell me why there was POV switches mid chapter- and sometimes even three switches. It was honestly too much and the characters really all started to blend into each-other sadly. No one stood out to me, even Bryce. I also was noticing the lack of female POVS. At some points it was all just Bryce in the room of men. Once I caught on, I couldn’t stop pointing it out. This novel felt very male centred and I was so over it by the end.3. The main romance was unnatural and boring . I’m sorry but this book made Bryce and Hunt so boring. For a novel that promises lots of heat and tension…. It was barely there honestly. It was at no point a ACOMAF type of romance for me (but nothing will ever be). I also got annoyed with how many times Bryce said alphahole and ashole like girl… we’re all over it. Almost everyone of her remarks back had to have some vulgar swearing in it. It was fun first but it gets tired very quickly.My final thoughts for this is that I truly think this novel by itself, was a complete filler for the next one. SJM honestly did not need to write 800 pages of this boring confusing stuff. She could have just given us 200 pages and that last chapter TBH. I see what she did and it was in a way very smart because THE LAST CHAPTER HAD ME SHAKING OKAY!I have hope in the next one because there is an amazing foundation to work with. But for me, I will likely not pick up House of Sky and Breath again.