This isn't one of those books you can be super critical of. It's very insta-lovey with less of a focused plot - a really tropey, white-and-heterosexual read with more of a fantasy element to the romance. But if you don't really care too much you can enjoy it.Four stars, originally five. I’ve just read this so many times before reviewing it that I’ve picked up on all the unwelcome details…so my rating is lowered now.Let’s start with the plot. I looooove Greek mythology. I’m not saying that as a Percy Jackson/Heroes of Olympus/Rick Riordan fan. I’m saying that as someone who: - read several Greek mythology textbooks before ever picking up the Percy Jackson books - read the Iliad just because the Odyssey was going to be an English assignment - read two different versions of the Odyssey just to get a “better understanding”. - has read all of the Percy Jackson books three times - has read the Heroes of Olympus series three times - has been to the Parthenon in Nashville - has randomly researched the minor gods/goddesses/creatures in Greek mythology out of boredomSo. I was expecting more Greek elements when I first picked this one up. Was I disappointed by the lack of mythology? Not really, since I had been anticipating this read for a while. I was too excited to finally read it to really care.[Okay, moving past my unnecessary list of stuff].I was a bit hesitant the first time I read this (which was about two years ago, maybe three. So I’m mainly writing from the perspective of my latest reread), because romance books are not really my thing. I had never read The Selection.But I loved this.I really, really loved this. I loved all the characters (except for Elizabeth because she was more selfish and annoying), especially Miaka. I loved Kahlen’s perspective on everything and I loved how she still hadn’t figured herself out after ninety-nine years of life. I loved the concept of this private society of Sirens, and the system they served with the Ocean. I wasn’t quite there for the romance, which is a bit unfortunate since this is a romance book. Fight me, but insta-love is just so useless and annoying.I will win that fight.Still, Kahlen and Akinli were just so, so cute. I couldn’t help rooting for them to be together (which is the point of a romance, but it doesn’t always work for me). They had chemistry, and they understood each other perfectly. It was so much fun to read.“Whatever happened, I'd met my person, the one my soul connected to.”The writing. I think the writing in this one was pretty different from The Selection – this was more flowery, more relaxed and swoon-worthy. I mean, it sounded similar, but this one felt sweeter (although, Kahlen is a lot sweeter than America).“Love is a risk worth taking.I'd waited an eternity for this.I'd have waited all over again if I had to.I was meant to be kiss this boy, designed to be held by him.All the careful postures I held melted away, and I pulled him closer.We were stars.We were music.We were time.”The characters were all fun, but they weren’t layered or deep. Which was fine, I think, since that wasn’t a huge part of the story. It felt like the only two main characters were really Kahlen and Akinli, and the Ocean of course. But everyone else was just a side character.That being said, I loved Miaka. I empathized with Padma. And I admired Elizabeth, as much as she annoyed me. I do love my badass heroines (AELINNNNN) but Kahlen was really amazing. She is essentially a normal girl – and over the course of the novel, she realizes that time and time again. She isn’t strong or unbreakable, she’s human. And I loved having an element like that in this kind of book.“How magical it was just to be a normal girl.”I liked the idea of the system that the Sirens served, with the Ocean. It was really easy to understand, but it was a real central force in the book. I think I’d love to be a siren for the experience it gets. But the way it was painted in the plot was just unflattering, mostly because it goes against everything the main character truly wanted.“I kept waiting for something to happen, which isn’t how life works. In closed environments, everything just repeats.”Holy shit does that quote up there represent quarantine.I think my favorite part was the one day that Kahlen and Akinli had together. It was magical, and reading it reminded me of how I felt in seventh grade. There was a boy, and he liked me, and we were pretty good friends (if anyone actually wants to know, we weren’t a thing). And our moments together felt kind of the way I did when reading that day in Port Clyde – like someone actually knew me and cared.It didn’t last. But it was nice to find that kind of feeling.“I could tell in his face that I could burn the house down, and he’d just get out marshmallows and thank me for the lovely flame. I’m not sure I could make a mistake big enough for him not to forgive.”Overall, I loved this book. I loved it the first time I read it, and I still love it now. My only issue is that I enjoyed it less this time around, because I could find all the little things that were covered up before. It's not really a super-critical book, since it doesn't really cover a lot, but overall it's a light read. I see why people don't like it, as it's definitely not the best, but I enjoy this one.