1.5/5It was my intention to write a more coherent review, but after months of not doing it I'm just pasting the notes I took while reading/directly after finishing. So I apologize for the slight stream of consciousness style review.So much instalove. She met him. He was cute. They baked a cake together and of course she loves him forever and ever and can't live without him. Literally.Also, Akinli's creepy candle wax burn was so ridiculously creepy. Seriously, GTFO of this book.It felt more like a generic high school romance than a supernatural love story.No plot happened except Kahlen's instalove with Akinli. Then, suddenly a crisis was crammed into the remaining 40 pages. Seriously, 80% of the book is boring. Would have actually been better as a novella, not enough substance for the full 325 pages it is.Of course, MC falls into a depression a-la-Bella Swan for years when she can't be near him because it's just too much to be separated from her one true love that she's known for just a few hours.And then there's the personified Ocean who switches between talking to them like the sirens are employees and then talks to them like they're BFFs. It was pretty weird at times.While reading, this was hovering between 2 and 2.5 stars, but the last few pages were so worthy of eyerolling that I just had to lower the rating.Where was the world building? Yes, it was based in the contemporary world, but there were still elements that the reader was supposed to accept because Cass didn't bother to explain it at all. How did the sirens originate? How did they come to be? It felt like the author didn't want to look up mythology and said, "They just do, kay?"Would have been so much better without the romance at all. This could have been a fantastic 'girl power' story with the sirens as the focus and the dynamics of their friendship and the tragic job they must perform. The shipwreck scenes included were so brief, but they could have been so powerful. Instead, we got a creepy romance at the forefront with two dimensional supporting sirens in the background. Padma's story could have been SO good.The 'crisis' included just felt so out of place, so disjointed and random, that it actually took away from whatever story there actually was.The only positive I have is that this is a standalone and this story won't be dragged on any longer. The cover is also really pretty so two positives!Thankfully, I checked it out of my library.