This book was FREAKING AWESOME!!! A MUST OWN! A book that has all the elements for an amazing book! A book you would lose sleep over because you can't put it down! A book you find yourself gripping to find out what happens and the anticipation of the action in this book!Alright, so this book is about Frostbloods and Firebloods. Frostbloods are people who can control ice and snow and are cold. Firebloods are hot and have control over fire in this book we do however have some people who have neither. The world building isn't anything new where the Frostbloods rule and are trying to exterminate the Firebloods. There is a lot of legends, myths, history when it comes to these people and I enjoyed exploring that and learning more about it throughout the story.Because of this Ruby has suppressed her power of fire all her seventeen years of life. In secret and behind her mother's back she feels like she should somehow practice. Her Grandmother, before she died was trying to teach her how to control it but now her mother didn't want it to manifest at all otherwise she should be caught and put to death. I REALLY liked Ruby, she has a temper and a lack of controlling it, she lets her emotions run wild, she is feisty, fierce, strong, yet good and kind. I REALLY enjoyed everything about her character even her raging sack of hormones.Then we have Arcus, I loved everything about him. So swoon-worthy in every way. He is NOT your typical swoon worthy male character and I LOVE THAT! He constantly wears a hood, he is SUPER strong and good at his control over his powers of frost and tries to help Ruby with her powers and temper even though he has one as well...well when it comes to her that is.I loved their relationship, they were enemies with a common purpose. I was a bit disappointed when I felt their relationship changed and developed almost too quickly but that is nothing against the book just something I prefer.Overall: I absolutely loved everything about this book, it's fast paced, action packed, doesn't have a romance that overwhelms the story, it keeps you on your toes and you won't be able to put this down once you start it! AH! I loved it!Sexual Content: mildViolence: moderateLanguage: noneDrugs/Alcohol: none*A HUGE thank you to Little, Brown Books for Young Readers for this ARC which I got in exchange for an honest review*