Okay. I think I’m ready to write this review. *takes a deep breath* My plan is to write this as a letter to the book. Not to the author, mind you, I’m not rudr like that, but to the book itself. Here it goes. (Mild spoilers ahead but nothing too revealing )  Dear Everless, I could sit here and cry for days about how good the world building was, how interesting the premise was, and how haunting some of the scenes were. This was a good book, you know? Time is money? How did you even think of that? It was brilliant! The fact that one can sell their time and then consume it as well, so either you live for eternities or you give away all your time. This was the case for Jules’ family, living in a poor town after she ran from Everless. Speaking of Jules… ugh. This was your weak link in armour. This was the entire issue. Jules was okay at the beginning, she was just like Feyre in ACOTAR, sacrificing herself to save her family. Except she was  soooooooo  stupid. My head physically hurts when I think about her irrational decisions. Like why are you like this? You knew the damn girl for two days don’t give her forty years of your life! Don’t try to enter the vault when you know you’re going to get a death sentence! Don’t kiss Roan when you know someone’s going to catch you guys! Don’t! Don’t! But here’s the thing. She didn’t listen to me. She just kept going on and on and on making crazy decisions and everything fell in place for her. Need to go to Briarsmoore? That’s fine, you can just leave, the guards aren’t going to question you. Like. Shut up. That’s not how life works. Secondly, I question your pace. What were you thinking at that end? It was madness! Everything was in such a rush, things were falling all over the place and then boom our Ms. Perfect  escapes again . ffs. And then there was Liam. What a wonderful character, evil and messed up and I LOVED HIM, OKAY? loved him because of his evilness, bc I needed another evil-turned-softie-only-for-the-girl-he-loves. Not because of anything else, okay? This was haters-to-lovers trope done all wrong. He turned into a little nice little puppy so quick, I was like, just tell me why there was even a need for a ROAN if you had Liam. zzzzzz. So this, dear Everless, is why I’m giving you 2.5 stars. You had everything I needed and everything I didn’t. You had a brilliant story about the Alchemist and the Sorceress but it made no sense. I wish I loved you, but I don’t. and dear Jules, just cause he helped you escape you want to kiss him, eh? EVEN THOUGH U KISSED HIS BROTHER LIKE 5 DAYS AGO AND THEN DISCOVERED YOU DON’T LOVE HIM WHEN HE DIED. okay. whatever. this makes no sense. goodbye.With much sadness, Yusra ———-what a stupid mess lol I’m regretting the time I took to read this book rtc, prepare for a rant of the century! (or I might not even care and be like; cover porn!)