TWO QUEENS, one blessed and one wicked. TWO POVS, one of the past and one of the present. TWO KINGDOMS, one fallen and the other a pit of hell. TWO SCRUMPTIOUS BOYS, one is a prince and one is a wolf. Are you in?We live in a world where good kings die and those foolish enough to hope for something better are killed where they stand.Mark my words, y'all: this series will go down in book history as one of the most epic YA fantasy series of all time.LE PLOT:Alrighty, let's start you off with the official synopsis. No, no, I am not being a lazy reviewer you muggles - I am actually doing you a favour. This book isn't meant to be thoroughly researched before diving in--even though that is a very logical thing to do--but you will thank me in the end if you take my advice. Here, I'll even copy and paste the synopsis below for your convenience, cuz I am such a good friend:When assassins ambush her best friend, the crown prince, Rielle Dardenne risks everything to save him, exposing her ability to perform all seven kinds of elemental magic. The only people who should possess this extraordinary power are a pair of prophesied queens: a queen of light and salvation and a queen of blood and destruction. To prove she is the Sun Queen, Rielle must endure seven trials to test her magic. If she fails, she will be executed...unless the trials kill her first.A thousand years later, the legend of Queen Rielle is a mere fairy tale to bounty hunter Eliana Ferracora. When the Undying Empire conquered her kingdom, she embraced violence to keep her family alive. Now, she believes herself untouchable--until her mother vanishes without a trace, along with countless other women in their city. To find her, Eliana joins a rebel captain on a dangerous mission and discovers that the evil at the heart of the empire is more terrible than she ever imagined.As Rielle and Eliana fight in a cosmic war that spans millennia, their stories intersect, and the shocking connections between them ultimately determine the fate of their world--and of each other.LE MCs:Rielle Dardenne: A prophesied queen whose heart aches for her forbidden lover.Crown Prince: His happiness comes at a high price. How much is he willing to pay?Corien: A dark, mysterious angel. And guess what? You're going to read this book now. You know how I know this? Cuz imma force you to. Muaha.A thousand years later...Eliana Ferracora: AKA "Dread of Orline". She is a bounty hunter for an evil emperor and she kills rebellious citizens in order to financially support her family, mainly her brother. The Wolf: A rebel captain that is *Damian's voice from Mean Girls* full of secrets."Dread," he murmured ... "is only a feeling, easily squashed. But wolves, my dear, bare teeth."Valentine: Cuz every story needs a douche *cough* I mean bad guy.LE ATTENTION:There are a few other important details that I feel I should mention to you all. This is a racially and sexually diverse book -- woohoo! There are scenes of masturbation, sex, killing and the use of profanity. And one more thing, even though this is categorized as YA, I personally feel like this book leans more towards new adult.As far as the writing style, it definitely had lyrical vibes at times. I was also never once confused by the dual POVs or the jumping back and forth from past to present. I think these factors are what made this such an amazing book because you get two stories in one! Reading the first installment to a fantasy series can be a bit daunting: lots of world-building, character introductions - lots of information that we have to absorb and process. However, Legrand did an exceptional job of juggling all of this for us readers.LE THOUGHTS:A part of me hopes that Claire Legrand will George R.R. Martin the crap out of this series because I want more than just three books! I know what you're thinking, "EEEK, Brittney. Georgieee boy's series has taken over 10 years to complete, that would be painful for us readers." Well, this is true. But I honestly think this series will be even more memorable and more enthralling if she "drags" it out if yah know what I mean. Also, how cool would it be to read this as YA, grow with these characters, and flow into an adult fantasy series. Epic, right? You know I'm right.Overall, this is a book that I will never forget. One that I will take to my grave when the time comes. One that I will tuck into bed and kiss goodnight. It is also one that I will thank the Book Lord for bestowing upon us every day.Thanks a million to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with an e-ARC. Quotes are subject to change upon publication. PS. This book comes out on May 22, 2018 - ON MY BIRTHDAY. AND GUESS WHAT! This book is totes going to be my birthday present to myself.