4.5 Stars!! This was REALLY fun.Only minor spoilers below - nothing big. Let's start with the prologue because holy crap that was fantastic. Way to suck me in, Claire. Anyway, we're thrust into an intense birth-and-escape scene where Queen Rielle delivers her daughter and shoves her into the arms of a young boy-Simon- telling him he must escape and save her life. Simon basically witnesses this whole horrific scene with the queen and an angel that has come for her before whisking the baby to safety. (Safety meaning years and years later because Simon has that type of magic.)The first chapter takes us years previous before Rielle becomes the ever-famous 'Blood Queen'. We follow her story as her life leads up to the inevitable prologue. Additionally, as a dual POV, we watch her daughter years in the future, who has no idea her real heritage. We learn of a prophecy, one that speaks of the coming of a 'Sun Queen' and a 'Blood Queen'. Thanks to the prologue, we know Rielle is the 'Blood Queen'. Anyway, I was super invested in Rielle's story, especially knowing how it 'ends'. It's almost a villain origin story, except Rielle's heart stays true. I don't want to spoil much, but her story begins when the kingdom discovers she can control all the elements with her magic, not just one like the rest of the population. They assume she is the long-foretold Sun Queen, and to prove she is the Sun Queen and not the Blood queen, she must complete Trials in front of the kingdom. She also has a bit of a forbidden romance with Audrik , the prince, though there are about a billion things keeping them apart. Anyway, phew her scenes are super riveting, especially at first. While she's completing the Trials (which are cruelly put together), she hears a voice. She grows to know the voice as Corien and discovers he is an angel. (Which again, we know Corien is the one she tries to save her daughter from in the prologue.) Then we have Elianna, her daughter. In her time, she's known as the "Dread of Orline" - she's something like a bounty hunter. Think Celaena Sardothian from the 'Assasin's Blade' - or something like that. She's a bit of an anti-hero--she's fierce and doesn't listen to anyone, but somewhere in there, she has a good heart. We don't know what happened to the boy that saved her as a baby, and she doesn't remember any of that. She was raised by another family and pretty much only cares about them and no one else. BUT her 'mother' goes missing and Elianna gets mixed up with a man called the "Wolf' who makes her a deal to find her mother if Elianna will help him.So the story jumps in two different directions.Anyway, the pacing was batshit crazy - there isn't a single dull moment. I almost wonder if it was *too* fast at times, but I applaud Claire's ability to suck the reader in and keep them turning the page. Expect a ton of action! The crazy fast pacing lost me a bit at the end though. I feel like things with Simon + Elianna were a bit rushed they got mushy totally out of the blue  - I think Elianna's character arc felt a little fast at the end. As far as Rielle, I still like her a lot, and I loved the whole struggle with Audrik vs Corien. I think at the end, I was just expecting a big blow up with Corien vs Elianna, but nothing really happened -yet. (Soooo I'll be back for a sequel...)But the story was fun! Corien was a fantastic villain - I'm super intrigued by him. If you know me, I'm a sucker for a good villain. Do I recommend this? You bet. *** A huge thanks to Source Books for the early copy! My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy