Well. Here’s to a new season of FANTASY 👏🏻To say I went into this book with reservations and Z E R O expectations is an understatement because this book is  h e l l a f u c k i n g HYPED. H Y P E D i tell you. but, bUT, BUT....it. was. really. fucking. GOOD. I was honestly not expecting the amount of great good epicness that was this book. Aside from the riveting and hyping reviews, there were also the polarizing and scathing reviews, but most of them consisted mainly of points that either stated the book was too long and boring, or trashing the world building and characters. Well golly gee, I didn't what to think going into this book pre-review. I was prepared to drop it like old takeout into the trash....however,....said takeout was actually fucking delicious and fresh af. thank god. I honestly can say that there are only two times in my life where reading fantasy has taken a firm and gripping hold on me, a new and refreshing take the genre itself; a new outlook, something I know and will grow to love. Two eras: The Lord of the Rings booksandThe Throne of Glass booksSay what you will about TOG series but I read the first three books before I knew anything about booktube and overhype and toil and trouble and I actually really enjoyed this series (it has gone rather downhill but i am faaaaar too invested into giving up now).And now, enter Furyborn. And I can see, in the near future, a HUGE potential for this series to become an added fav to the collection. Key word p o t e n t i a l. I for one, agree with all the 5 star reviews because they say pretty much the same thing. characters.world building. story. writing.characters. world building. storty.writing. characters.and so and so forth. This was an extremely solid start to a new fantasy era for me because I've been wobbling on this spectrum for quite a bit, not really caring or investing into most of the other fantasy books I've read since after LOTR and TOG. (OFC, there are other great fantasy books as well but I count these in line with the TOGs season). Only thing I docked off a star for would be the repetitive story telling of the two main characters-- the alternating chapters back and forth, although, each chapter was relatively short and managed to hold my attention long enough to want to know what would happen to each character. Also, I didn't really care for Rielle's story. I didn't really care for her and Audric's romance or life. Geez all they wanted to do really was have sex and the 'heat' between them was bothersome for me and some cringe but it's fine; they're literally hormonal teenagers caught in the crossfires of war of kingdoms and magic. lol.But as for Eliana's story.....HELL YEAH GIVE ME MOOOOOOORRREEEEEE.4 FURYBORN STARSTwitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |