l 53% l i should write this review now or i probably never will. although i really don’t know what to say because i have a lot of different thoughts and i don’t know where to start.i am also forgetting this book rather quickly.i don’t think that this book was necessarily for me, and while i enjoyed some parts, some aspects of the book annoyed me and overall it had no lasting impact on me whatsoever. having said that, i can 100% see how people adore this book. (i can also see why people hate it, but i will get to that later.) i think that if fantasy is your shit and you love some morally gray badass women and you don’t mind multiple perspectives or time changes, then this book is for you. as for me, this book has made me come to realize that fantasy is…not my shit. which makes me sad because some of the books that got me into reading and one of my comfort series is fantasy (acotar don’t judge me), and i wish i liked fantasy more so that i could appreciate it more if that makes sense, but ive come to realize that i would much rather read an intense, heartbreaking historical or contemporary novel than an action-packed fantasy book that confuses me. (watch me say that and then i go read ten fantasy books in a row.)mostly this book was eh to me because i just didn’t care very much and i wasn’t super invested overall, but on the other hand i enjoyed reading most of it and i wasn’t just waiting for it to be over.however, i can totally see how people hate this book. for one,it can be confusing at times and it jumps back and fourth between a thousand years so obviously that could be really annoying.two,  the characters are not always likable and not even in the cool morally gray sense (though oftentimes they were), but in the sense where i just wanted to punch them and i didn’t care if their asses died in a fire.three, the world building was not so great and neither was the development of the magic system. we got a map, some names of places, some elements, something called the “emperium” that is never explained, and that’s about it. four, there is barely any reason to care about this book. i don’t know what it is, but this books makes it very hard for itself to have an investment-worthy plot or characters. or anything, really. it is supposed to be “gripping” and high-stress but instead it is low-stress because i’m not emotionally attached.the plot:this follows a girl named eliana and a girl named rielle, who lived 1000 years before her. there’s a prophecy of something that says there will be a bLoOd qUEeN and a sUn qUeEN so i bet you can’t guess that those are supposed to be eliana and rielle. we know from the beginning who the sun queen is and who the blood queen is, because we get a little prologue thingy, but for most of the story they act like we don’t already know and try to make it seem mYstERiOuS or maybe just because the characters aren’t supposed to know, i’m not really sure. i, for one, think it’s a waste of time to have that trope where the reader knows something the characters don’t, because then literally what is the point. i’m reading about this even though i already know the bIG tHiNG and for what. however, even with that, i was excited to see how one of the characters started off thinking they were the sun queen and slowly become the blood queen and i just wanted to see how and why everything went down the way it did. i thought i was going to get that at the end, have a nice haunting full-circle moment, but instead i got some rebellion good-guys bullshit. and i was really disappointed, because villain origin stories are my shit. the plot of the book is definitely questionable, i liked the premise and how things from past and present were woven together, but most of the ‘present’ stories from the main characters that didn’t have anything to do with the bigger picture felt tedious, confusing at times, and ultimately unnecessary. it felt like a cheap way to insert more ‘action’ into the story so that i would keep reading.i am aware i am making it sound rn like i hated this book but i honestly didn’t i am just extremely tired and probably should not be writing this review right now so i’m feeling salty apparently.(I AM SO TIRED RN I LITERALLY CANNOT WRITE COMPLETE SENTENCES AND I CANT WRITE ANY OF THE CHARACTERS NAMES CORRECTLY 😭😭)the characters:rielle: i honestly don’t know. i feel like i should have something to say because rielle was literally one of the main characters in the book but i have nothing to say about her because i feel as if i barely know her at all. she’s pretty serious and does some nice badass shit and of course she has trouble cOnTrOlLiNg heR pOwERs but other than that she doesn’t really seem to have a personality. she seems like a regular person. idk. it feels almost refreshing to have a female character in a fantasy book that is just like a regular person because eventually you get sick of that thing where apparently every single female mc has to be sNarKY to be a part of a feminist fantasy. so in that way, i liked rielle, but she was also just boring and nothing made me attached to her as a character. she is kind of like one of those characters where you can insert yourself where she is because she doesn’t have any actual characteristics except for the situations she is in, and she is made sympathetic enough by making some okay decisions and being badass in some battle scenes.eliana: eliana had a bit more personality than rielle, but with that comes….her being really fucking annoying and making the stupidest fucking decisions. i liked her a lot in the beginning and then she just made the same exact mistake over and over again and got like 200 people killed and then felt gUiLTy but then did the exact same shit again. she did that about every 20 pages and i couldn’t stand it. when she wasn’t doing that (in the beginning mostly,) i appreciated her as a character and how she was morally gray and did what she had to do to survive. i theoretically like eliana but there were some things about her that really pissed me off.audric and simon: they are the same person to me. no i don’t care corien: damnnnn ok who gave this man permission to be this damn fine 😩✋because i swear i loved this morally gray smart ass bitch who literally tricked everyone and took an entire kingdom for himself. i can’t not love a character like that, who plays his game so well & ends up at the top of the world. (i don’t even know if he was a well developed character don’t even ask me that, high cheekbones dark hair full lips fjdjahdkdjdjd)a note: while i am simping for corien i will also say that although i complained a little about eliana and rielle objectively as characters in a story, would i trip over my feet for these women if i somehow happened to be transported into this fantasy world and they were there as hot motherfucking queens? yes. yes i would.  😌the writing:one of the things that saved this book for me was that i overall think that it was written with a high quality and had many aspects that i thought were written well. i didn’t think there were any overly cheesy quotes or things that were over-the-top, i thought that the quality in which this book was written was definitely one of the more positive aspects of the book as a whole. i liked the feminist undertones and the interesting ways the book brought up issues of how far to go to survive and save yourself, and how selfish to be, etc. i thought that those elements were woven nicely into the fantasy and many of those are meant to be in a fantasy. the writing wasn’t exceptional by any means, but it brought more to the story than it took away. things i would want if i were to read the rest of this series (which i probably won’t)❥ a ludivine x rielle ship❥ a eliana x navi ship❥ a corien backstory ❥ a story of how rielle killed audric & a rielle villain origin story❥ an explanation of the magic system (in terms that i can understand❥ character depth and development for everyonedisclaimer: i am tired and can’t read words on my phone so this review is shit and i cannot keep my eyes open and the last thing i want to be doing right now is writing a review but here. i. am. so if this review seems slightly ~unhinged~ that is why.thank you to RoRo for buddy reading this book with me! :)_______________________________3 starsrep:✔︎ bi mc✔︎ bi mc