‘The Bonehunters march alone, leaking blood with every step.’There are so many bloody memorable lines in this book I need to collect them somewhere. Combined, they read like a movie trailer!‘In that Malazan Book of the Fallen, the historians will write of our suffering, and they will speak of it as the suffering of those who served the Crippled God. As something … fitting. And for our seeming fanaticism they will dismiss all that we were, and think only of what we achieved. Or failed to achieve.And in so doing, they will miss the whole fucking point.’Shadowthrone hissed. ‘Well? Is that it?’‘Is what it?’‘That’s all you have to say? This is a momentous scene, you fat fool! This is where everything really, truly, finally begins! So squeeze the ale from your brain, mortal, and say something worthy of your kind. You stand before a god! Speak your eloquence for all posterity. Be profound!’ ‘Profound … huh.’ Temper was silent for a long moment, studying the cobbles of the alley mouth. And then he lifted his helmed head, faced Shadowthrone, and said, ‘Fuck off.’You cannot kill us any more, but we can kill you, and so we shall. We are the sword of ancient memories. Memories of fire, memories of ice, memories of the pain you delivered upon us. I shall answer your crime. I shall be the hand of your utter annihilation.I dream of returning, swords blazing with holy vengeance. I dream, Shadowthrone, of murdering every one of those fuckers. Is this what it means to be a god?And the most haunting one of them all‘Quick Ben, we're soldiers of the Emperor. It's all we ever have been.’This has been a buddy read that's been ongoing for more than four years, with many casualties along the way (including myself for a short while). Big kudos to my friends Gavin & Kaora for sticking with it until the very last book.The Crippled God is, in the end, one of the best instalments in the Malazan Book of the Fallen series. As shocking as that may seem to anyone who has attempted reading it, most of the plotlines, characters and themes do come together in the end.I am finding it extremely hard to sort through my thoughts enough to actually write a proper review for this last Malazan book. I suspect it (and the whole series) will inevitably warrant a reread, but until then, I will leave it at that.A fitting end to an exceptional series.Malazan Book of the Fallen reviews:#1 Gardens of the Moon#2 Deadhouse Gates#3 Memories of Ice#4 House of Chains#5 Midnight Tides#6 The Bonehunters#7 Reaper's Gale#8 Toll the Hounds#9 Dust of Dreams#10 The Crippled God