Chapter 24: Only the fallen can rise again.* May, but this series has fallen (and none of the epilogues changed that). Chapter 23: Oh no. What do you mean "DIFFERENT TOES?!" You just rendered a couple of hundreds of pages an entirely meaningless waste of time on my part. Seriously. If I quit now, nobody is going to blame me. Chapter 22: Guess what, I can see the light at the end of this tunnel! Chapter 21: Tavore Paran, let it be known that you are the only reason for my perseverance. Chapter 20: Honorary marine. That is nice.Chapter 19: Yes, yes. At last, this behemoth of a plot starts showing some tentative signs of life. Chapter 18: Oh, NOW are the oldies popping up out of atrophied plots? Well, finally.Chapter 17: [two months later] This book might yet bee a death of me. Chapter 16: Honestly, I expect Greta Thunberg to have her own POV any time now.Chapter 15: At this point I just hope everybody dies in the next chapter to ease their pain. And mine. Chapter 14: Never can have too many kittens, can we? Precisely, sir. Chapter 13: What do I care about all these new protagonists who popped up a book or two ago? Nothing! Give me the old ones! I miss #sorrynotsorry and the whole lot I loved in the first three books that somehow got abandoned along the way.Chapter 12: I am trying to remember what this chapter was about and why it matters. Alas, I fail. Chapter 11: With all this anti-civilisational anti-human rubbish strewn across those chapters, I am truly surprised this series is not a holy book of Extinction Rebellion. I expect they would gob it up without editing. Chapter 10: Confession time: I skip all the poems. Tolkien this is not. Chapter 9: [the pages go by] Chapter 8: I can see what you are doing here with the Dark and the Light. I can see and I don't like it, Mr Erikson. Chapter 7: Truly, my trial of going through all of this is... unwitnessed. Chapter 6: I always knew it was not healthy to be a dragon. Chapter 5: Something seems to be happening. Or planning/plotting/scheming/walking to be happening. But hard to say what. Also, it is hardly interesting. Chapter 4: A kindly fisted army. Some genuine enjoyment at last. Chapter 3: [snip! snip! snip!] That's me mentally cutting huge, redundant chunks of this "story". Chapter 2: I don't really know who half of the cast is at this stage. I barely care for the other half. Chapter 1: The Adjunct. I am here for the Adjunct. Prologue: I cannot believe I am here already. * I am not going to even pretend that I could in any way give a pale shadow of justice to this book or indeed a whole series in a proper review. There are many better than me, here on Goodreads (and many of those I'm lucky to have among my friends), who managed to grasp and convey the sheer brilliance of what awaits those who open the Malazan Book of the Fallen. All I can give you is a chapter breakdown of how this book crippled me forever.The Malazan Book of the Fallen:1. Gardens of the Moon ★★★★★2. Deadhouse Gates ★★★★★3. Memories of Ice ★★★★★4. House of Chains ★★★★★5. Midnight Tides ★★★★★6. The Bonehunters ★★★★★7. Reaper's Gale ★★★★☆8. Toll the Hounds ★★★★★9. Dust of Dreams ★★★☆☆ (and the third star is a testament to my generosity)