And the journey ends. It's been a long one,after 10 books 9000 pages it's hard to say goodbye but like every Erikson's ending last pages of The Crippled god where epic and satisfying. It's impossible to say something about last book without spoilers so I won't. This will be review of the whole series. My journey started rough. Initially I DNF-ed first book @50%. It was because of enthusiasm of my GR friend Molly (sadly she hasn't been fully active in long time now) that I decided to give this series another go. On second try I managed to survive first book and seen potential. Rest of the series realizes that potential and Malazan book of fallen becomes everything people said it would be.And what is Malazan book of fallen? What makes it so unique?:Well it's combination of of heroic fantasy with heroes larger than life, gods, ancient evils and powerful magic and gimdark military fantasy with clash of big armies and how it affects common solider and people, all that spiced up with criticism of religion, capitalism but most of all strong anti-war message.What also makes this series unique is that it lacks classical protagonist. Instead, throughout the series we get several dozen of different PoVs and many more charters. Some have more screen time, some less but hey are all just pieces that paint much larger canvas. Canvas that has battles of gods, armies and mortals. Where magic, steel and gunpowder clash and heroes die.There are many story lines that intertwine and there are practically no wasted effort, everything that happens affects events later.Sometimes in next book, sometimes after six books. Since second and especially third book Erikson makes clear that nothing is sacred and that every character can die no matter how much you love him. Of course Martin is famous for doing that but Erikson's characters are much more epic and likable and I was genuinely sad when characters dies in Malazan book of fallen as Malazan contains some of most epic and intriguing characters in fantasy. Some deaths even broke my hearth. What is also unique is Erikson's writing style. He doesn't even try to go for something realistic and instead dialogues are rather epic and absurd. It's one of main things that made me DNF first book and indeed some dialogues there where very weird but as series progresses Erikson becomes much better at that style.Worldbuild:Well simply put there is no book that matches Malazan book of fallen in this regard. This is most fascinating, complex world with hundreds of thousands years of history. Erikson seem to be more efficient and puts more events, worldbuilding and characters per page than any other fantasy authorFlaws? Three worth mentioning.First, books in second half of the series sometimes drag on and felt bit too long.Second, there is lot of philosophy in this book and sometimes it's intriguing and on point but sometimes it's boring and feels like verbal masturbation.Third that comes from one of series's strengths. You need good memory or you need to read books in short span, preferably both. As mentioned above there are many characters and small events that affect story but not for several books. Conclusion:I didn't rate all books in the series 5 stars but as a whole this series deserves more than 5 stars and that's why it goes to favorites shelf. This is maybe the best fantasy series I read and something all other fantasy series will be measured against.