Trust me when I say this will be the biggest the world has ever seen, bigger even than the chaining of the Crippled God.There are too many rogue players in this game. Icarium. Draconus. The First Sword of the T’lan Imass. Olar Ethil, Silchas Ruin, Tulas Shorn, Kilava – even Gruntle, the Mortal Sword of Treach. And now the Eleint, and how many dragons have come or are coming through the gate? A hundred? A thousand? Oh, and the Elder Gods: Errastas, the past Master of the Tiles, and Kilmandaros and her son.....‘Let’s just add the K’Chain Che’Malle and the Jaghut, and oh, we should probably mention Hood himself – no longer dragging the Throne of Death by one ankle. And who knows how many slavering fanatics of the Wolves of Winter! And what about the Crippled God himself – will he go quietly?That quote sums up the whole book, its the final stand for everybody. This series is now my favourite series of all time, I doubt any fantasy series can live up to this series.World building and Writing The world building is out of this world, its so well depicted, The glass desert is even worse than anyone would have anticipated and Steven Erickson still wowed me. Do not even get me started on the writing, they are like a zillion POVs, I have to admit it took a while to get used to, after that it was a piece of cake. Everyone that survived the past 9 books are all in this, sadly not all of them made it to the ending of the book. *sniffles* "Grieving had nothing to do with the ones gone, and everything to do with the ones left behind. We feel the absences in our life like open wounds, and they never really close, no matter how many years pass."Characters The MalazansThe Bonehunters survivors after the incident with the K'chain Nahruk are still trying to cross the glass desert which has never been crossed in like forever, they lost most of the company, to thirst but the few survivors were still willing to die to do what needs to be done. To fight the Forkrall Assail who is determined to end humanity, then there's the thing with the crippled god that is a major spoiler. The Adjunt's alliesThey include the Letherris, Bolkando, the grey helms, the burned tears and The K'chain Chemelle, yea them. These ones took a shortcut to get to the enemies, but even them lost a sustainable number of their company.T'lan ImassThey are also here, they are just marching in the glass desert, they were all summoned here to come fight a war they know nothing about. Lots of the Imass here have POVs so we know what is going on in their head and its so sad, but it all paid off at the end, Fener died and his blood made them flesh and blood again, saldy it happened during battle so they sustained mortal injury and died, but Onoos Toolan survived though more than half of them died. The Tiste andiis and LiosanThe pretentious liosans wants to continue their war on the andiis, due to the rip in the realm, the same rip that brought the Eleint to this world. But the andiis are not in Kharkanas, the people they met were formidable fighters, they held the gate.The SnakeThese children will make you weep at the same time be happy for the life you have. They are brave courageous and just refused to give up, I hope they get the best out of life.I am as true as anything you have ever seen. A dying child, abandoned by the world. And I say this: there is nothing truer. Nothing.Flee from me if you can. I promise I will haunt you. This is my only purpose now, the only one left to me. I am history made alive, holding on but failing.The AssailThese is the race that judged humans unworthy to be alive. They are ready to do anything to annihilate humans. They magic and warren is so ancient that they can control not only mind but body. What they did not anticipate is human's will to live.The ElientThe gate is once again open, the last time the dragons were in this world they destroyed lots of continents and now they are back. T'am the mother of dragons is also on her way, not to mention Otataral that negates magic and lay waste to anywhere she passes.The gods The gods in this series are worse than the greek gods, they love to meddle so much, they all want one thing, more power. They are willing to use humans to get what they want, its doesn't matter whether or not the people make it. To say they are selfish is an understatement.We are sickened by the unknown, but knowledge can prove poisonous. And drifting lost between the two is no better.