Great books read: 2Hours spent cheering for the goodies:endless....Hours spent cheering for the baddies:2462621Temples for Hadrian: OTemples for Royce: OTemples for Royce and Fluffster: 378715 and then I just lost the count <3Monster count: a lot of adorable goblins, one amazing Fluffster with a couple of friends (fangirling mode - on)Though I gave the first installment only three stars, I knew that Mr. Sullivan will have more up in his sleeve, so it was obvious that further books will lead to greater things and more stars, hence my four stars to the second installment. It is 100 % true as I just loved this third and last installment. This installment is epic! “Heir of Novron" delivered the thrilling and exciting story of Royce and Hadrian to an end with the final adventure that blew my mind. Mr. Sullivans writing is quite simple, there are no big scheming, confusing twists or complex characters and the beauty of the series lies there. It doesn’t matter now that I didn’t love some of the characters in the first installment and felt annoyed with them. I learned to love them as the story went on. Comparing the series to some hard core Epic Fantasy, Riyria may not look the most unique story, but it made me admire the characters, their progress and of course their adventures caught my imagination. There is more magic in this installment and to my great pleasure I got more of my fave girl, Ms. Whirlwind.Like in previous two installments, “ Heir of Novron” is divided into two parts-books.WintertideI felt that this book is similar to the earlier ones, it’s good and bad at the same time as the final showdown is only in the second part of the installment, but I had fun observing all the revelations, twists, more troubles, battles, gripping character progress and their backstories. Mr. Sullivan does it with skill, but carefully not to tire the reader with long waiting.Percepliquis The book I waited reading the most. This is a quest story, with lots of action, a bit of digging, fantastic revelations, fabulous humor and of course amazing character development. I felt the sadness of loss, the meaning of sacrifice, the price of courage and the importance of friendship as I followed the characters as they faced terrible situations, tried to survive in attempt to solve the great mysteries.I’m in love at last, but no Hadrian temples will emerge, I fell in love (sort of) with Royce, it happened when I was almost in the middle of the second book :) The scene, that did the work for me <3“I think it got all of them,” Hadrian announced. “Ghazel always take their dead if they can.”“I wish I had a sugar cube or something to give him,” Royce said, looking at the Gilarabrywn with a sympathetic expression. “He’s been such a good boy”The world is on the brink of destruction and Mr. Sullivan offers even more twists or revelations to feed the reading greed. Well, I must confess that some of them were a bit predictable (the true identity of the Heir, the real parents of one lovely girl) but it’s still a great read.All in all I enjoyed the installment a lot as it was an adventurous playdate and I don’t want to leave the world and characters of Riyria. It’s sad a bit that Mr. Sullivan has no plans to continue the story of Riyria further, but I’m glad that I still have Riyria Chronicles to feast my eyes on :)