How many of you have read a series and loved everything about it only to get to the last book and be completely disappointed?*raises hand*So many times that has happened to me, especially when I’ve read books back to back and I get to the end an stuff from the last book doesn’t even fit in with stuff from the first book…I mean it does fit if you’ve had a drink or three and look at it while standing on your head trying to balance a set of plates with you feet. But, not on a normal Tuesday.Well have no fear….this is exactly the opposite of that.First, lets just say that the revelations at the end of book 6 totally fall in line with all the revelations made along the way. How did Michael J. Sullivan accomplish this you might ask? Well I’ll tell you young grasshopper. He didn’t publish any of the books until the entire thing was complete. That’s right! He had the luxury of editing stuff throughout to make it perfect and it was.There were so many great characters and moment throughout the entire series that I don’t think I can pick just one. I loved the bromance: Hadrian and Royce make the perfect bromantic couple ever. They are totally in my top 3 of all time for sure.
 “You can’t kill Myron, Royce,” Hadrian said, rapidly pulling the monk away as if he had found a child playing with a wild bear. “It would be like killing a puppy.”
Best philosophical monk ever: Myron had some amazing words of wisdom for our heroes in their most desperate hours.
 “A beautiful day might bring disaster, while a day that begins trapped inside an ancient toom, might be the best one of your life. If you don´t abandon hope on pleasent days, why do so on those that begin poorly?”
Strong female characters There isn’t a single girl just waiting for prince charming to come along. They are all strong independant flawed and beautiful.
 Awe begot respect; respect begot confidence; confidence begot courage, and she needed her people to be brave. She needed them to cast aside their doubts even in the face of a terrible growing shadow. She needed them to believe in the wisdom of a young woman even when faced with annihilation.
There is a god walking among men seeking redemption - we find out who he is and I was a bit surprised….but I shouldn’t have been looking back on everything.And there is just enough romance that my shippy heart was happy - if you know me at all you know I love to find a couple to root for and I found a few in this series. Enough to keep all the girl parts of my satisfied.Finally the Author had me with his dedication
“This book is entirely dedicated to my wife, Robin Sullivan.Some have asked how it is I write such strong women without resorting to putting swords in their hands. It is because of her.She is Arista.She is Thrace.She is Modina.She is Amilia.And she is my Gwen.This series has been a tribute to her.This is your book, Robin.
I don’t want to say much more because I loved how this all turned out. There were all the moments I look for in a book I love. -moments to make you laugh-moments that squeeze your heart-moments that you cheer-moments that you dred-and finally that moment when you see it all to the end and feel like you want to jump back to page 1 of book 1 and start all over again.This is one of the most underrated fantasy series I’ve read. If you like any of the things I list above you should read this as soon as possible.Pre-Read:Let’s find the true Heir, stop a wedding and maybe even save a witch. Reading with my fantasy fanatics at Buddies Books and Baubles