5/5 

“Revenge is a bittersweet fruit that leaves the foul aftertaste of regret.” 

THIS BOOK WAS IMPECCABLE. Like how dare it be so perfect! Seriously it gave me all the FEELS possible. Like I need a feel doctor, up in here to fix this shit, this book made me melt into a pile of goo, I HATE ROMANCE WITH A PASSION.  I'm like the love grinch, I'm a dedicated, pure and total romance hater. I hate all soppy shit & secretly hate all things cute. However this book was so terribly cute that i need to grow my nails long and rake them down my own face. I loved everything (especially the romance). I loved Royces changes. I loved how Hadrian stayed the same. I loved Arista's development. I loved Myron from the beginning. Favourite Quote and of course it came from Myron "Life is only precious if you wish it to be.’ I look at it like the last bite of a wonderful meal—do you enjoy it, or does the knowledge that there is no more to follow make it so bitter that you would ruin the experience?”But most of all I loved the bromance, yep folks I finally get it and am currently the driver of the hype train because this series is amazing. I genuinely love a slow burn fantasy and this series is exactly that. First book imo was pretty average, second book was pretty good it was slow and I felt something was missing, book three was exceptional. It had the missing thing and that was emotion, I was finally emotionally attached to the characters, I immediately saw the bromance and I was gobsmacked at how much I loved it's HEA ending. Even the romance gave me the sniffles, because it was so annoyingly adorable. Oh and did I mention the romance? (Yep 3 times already). So it's confirmed folks I'm not a weirdo and I finally discovered what a gem this series actually is. Each book gets better and better.  The writing is sensational and I think Michael J Sullivan is extremely talented. One thing I really loved in this book was the things that happened in the characters past was all a big build up to the end, I'm so glad Michael managed to tie everything together and I thought he did a fantastic job of keeping me entertained throughout the series. Looking forward to reading the authors other books. A satisfying end to a wonderful and FUN series. Recommended to all fantasy lovers, I also think this would be a great introduction for someone wanting to read epic fantasy.One last thing.. The dedication page destroyed me;

“This book is entirely dedicated to my wife, Robin Sullivan.Some have asked how it is I write such strong women without resorting to putting swords in their hands. It is because of her.She is Arista.She is Thrace.She is Modina.She is Amilia.And she is my Gwen.This series has been a tribute to her.This is your book, Robin.I hope you don't mind that I put down in wordsHow wonderful life is while you're in the world.--ELTON JOHN, BERNIE TAUPIN” 

 Whole series rating;Theft of Swords - 3.5/5Rise of Empire - 4/5Heir of Novron - 5/5Total rating - 12.5/15