This book, and series for that matter, are going down as one of my favorites of all time. I absolutely loved it! Everything that has been building up in Theft of Swords and Rise of Empire comes to a head in this final installment. MJS left no stone unturned and left me completely satisfied, but still wanting more. Wanting more you say?.....DAMN RIGHT! I could read another 900+ pages of Royce, Hadrian, Arista, and the whole crew right now.This book is another omnibus of books 5 and 6. Just like the previous two books. 
Book 5 - Wintertide
 Appropriately named after the Wintertide event in Aquesta where all of the action is taking place. In this installment we have Royce and Hadrian on a mission to rescue the Heir of Novron. Of course, when things don’t go according to plan they have to improvise. This story is both comical and sad with a twist that had me going WTF just happened. I felt Mr. Sullivan could have ended the story here if he wanted to, but he had a much bigger and better idea in mind which we see in book 6. 
Book 6 – Percepliquis
Royce, Hadrian, Arista, and a selected few others journey in search of the ancient city of Percepliquis to find an artifact that has been missing for 3,000 years. Their success or failure will determine the future of their world. This book had a darker feel to it than the previous books. More intensity and seriousness that matched the situation pressed upon our characters. It felt appropriate that all of our main characters from the first book are together on this final journey, and what a journey it was. We get all of our questions answered and legends finally revealed. A brilliant wrap up to this series! This is one colossal book of awesomeness. I cannot give this series enough praise. I have enjoyed every book, chapter, and page along the way. I am sad that it is over, but I do look forward to the Riyria Chronicles and Legends of The First Empire. I would recommend this series to everyone. I only hope you enjoy it half as much as I have.5 stars *****