4.5 starsThe Riyria Revelations was a beautiful journey with a set of characters I grew to love and care and about. Unlike many of its genre, it has a satisfying ending. Nowadays, I avoid series that I know will have disappointing endings. So no worries here. Sullivan wraps things up rather nicely.This book was brilliant. That very last scene? Wow. It showed how Sullivan weaved a solid plot from book 1, everything at the end turns out to be connected, like a big puzzle. After I finished Wintertide, it took me around 3 weeks to pick up this book again. Percepliquis, in my opinion, was better than the first book in this omnibus. I probably appreciated it more because of the elves and some events I know of because I have read about them previously in the Legends. I was very happy with the ending, it was satisfying. No rushed wrap-ups, it showed how much Sullivan had everything planned from the start. I hate abrupt conclusions. The Revelations ended on a high note for me.Other than Gwen and Royce, I don't think I have any "ship" in this series. I don't think Sullivan created enough chemistry between the characters that had feelings for each other.. Amelia and (you know who) okay, I guess because we weren't much in his head -but I couldn't feel the spark anyway. But the other two? Nope. I would've even be satisfied if we had zero romance in the whole series. I always love a brush of romance in my novels, but in this case.. I just didn't feel it. I also hated a particular death even though I long saw it coming I thought Gwen getting killed is useless and deprives Royce of the only happiness he had. Another complaint is why suddenly now we have lots of background on how Royce and Hadrian met? And about their early expeditions? I think that's because Sullivan was making us interested in the Chronicles but.. these could've been introduced in the first two books and not in the last.I must say I was rather indifferent about the characters in the first 2 installments, I enjoyed the story but as an outsider watching events unfold from a screen. Michael's growth as an author shows in this book as I was able to feel/relate more with our characters and it certainly got some reactions from me. I grew to love our characters and care for them. Modina, in particular, truly shined in this book. It saddens me that Legends of the First Empire wasn't nearly as good as his debut series.. I'm certain in fact, I would've appreciated it more if I read all of the Riyria Revelations first. I was happy with Persephone's references since I liked her but I don't think I will be continuing it even now (I have read the first 2 books). In fact, I doubt I'll be reading the Riyria Chronicles, I rarely appreciate stories of the past. I will, however, read any sequels for sure.I finished this series in less than a year which says something about it. It's light, fun, and easy to pick up again (for those who have a problem with reading sequels after a while like me). I definitely recommend it if you’re looking just for this sort of thing.