This is the first time I've read Skin Game. I think the world of it. I think it should be taught in schools. I think it should be adapted onscreen by the best of the best. It should have won a Hugo award at least. In comparison all the subsequent books I've tried to read pale in comparison.So, Harry Dresden's latest adventure - until Peace Talks comes out on July the 14th - has more twists than a slinky. It has more drama than Hamlet, and more revelations than The Book of Three. I was voluntarily spoiled regarding the story because I thought I'll never read it. I was deterred by the first chapter(Parkour!).The book picks up from the point where Harry has resided on Demonreach island for a long time. Mab comes roiling by and offers Harry a mission. From then on it's wall-to-wall thrills. There are a few references to movie lines (the ones onscreen not those waiting to gain entry) and the one I like the most is from Raiders of the Lost Ark.I cried when Butters became a Knight of the Cross. I was told about the resuscitating Sword. But I still shed tears of wonder and excitement when the event occurred. And the event occurred at the right time. I feared Butters would accomplish this feat when chased by Dresden and co. But this story was tighter than super glue on a bullet wound.I was happy that Dresden did not really tap Murphy when we thought he had. That too showed remarkable restraint by Jim Butcher. A plot device that has been on since the first book. It has been 20 years since that book got printed. 15 books in twenty years is a great feat. It shows stamina. Creativity under duress.Frankly, I don't see any other book besting Skin Game this year. The author can write the odd putrid story, and I'm first to criticize him when I think he deserves it. But this book is the best of the series so far and from now the only way is down. Especially for us fans waiting for Peace Talks. Since the book after the latter will be called Battle Ground, it presupposes that the peace talks will have been in vain. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. Toodle-oo for now.