My love for this series is now almost unprecedented, and quite irrational. My objectivity makes a mad dash for the nearest exit any time Harry Dresden is concerned. Because Harry and I? We have been through some tough shit together, and that is the friendship that's truly unbreakable.“Well, hell,” I said. “What’s the world coming to if you can’t trust Santa Claus?”Yes, I know there are probably many reasons why I should be critical of these books. The savior complex. The not-so-rare deus-ex-machina. The neverending wiseass banter at the least appropriate times. The 'great power, great responsibility' repetitions. The pure entertainment quality of these stories. Yeah, I know, I know. But guess what - to me, despite all, they are still near damn perfect. Jim Butcher has set up a series that fifteen books in is still going strong, is still gathering steam. The small pseudo-noir series about a wisecracking and goofy and ultimately good to the bone Chicago wizard detective has expanded in scope tremendously, gave us some major character growth and managed to build up an impressive overall arc while never failing to deliver a satisfying complete storyline in each installment. It gave us the neverending moments of sheer hilarity, the awesome quotable moments, the fun and well-written action scenes, and even quite a few slightly-choked-up 'I'm not crying; I've just been cutting onions' moments.It saw Harry Dresden grow and mature, gain everything and lose everything, build up amazing powers and yet never fail to remember where he comes from and who - always 'who' and never 'what' - is truly important to him. While, of course, consistently remaining a wisecracking guy who can never quite keep his mouth shut while accidentally (or on purpose) blowing up buildings with his magical thuggishness."I’m only a wiseass to monsters.And people who really need it.And when it suits me to be so."This book is a throwback in some way, a much-needed regrounding and regrouping for Harry, a return to those he holds dear, reestablishing the bonds that had been formed way before the stakes were raised in the previous few books. Karrin Murphy, Waldo Butters, and Michael Carpenter - all of them make a strong reappearance, in their humanity serving as Harry's ties to the human world, the place with which he worries his connection may become too tenuous at times, given that he's now a substantial force in the world of the supernatural.“You made a deal. With Mab,” he said simply. “You apparently died. Your ghost showed up claiming you had died, and got us all to do things. Then you show up alive again, only you’ve got freaky Winter faerie powers. You were here for a day before Molly was gone, with freaky Winter faerie powers of her own. And you’ve been back for a year, living out on that island where hardly anyone can get to you, not talking, not helping, not here.” He looked at me for the first time. “Not you. Not the you we all know.”Yes, the Winter Mantle carried by the Winter Knight has its grim responsibilities. And comes with a boss you'd never want to offend - Mab, the Winter Queen, who defies the simple characterization of good or bad. Mab, who gives Harry a task that seems near impossible to complete - and who always appears to have her own coldly calculated hidden motives.“You know he’s not going to honor the truce,” I said quietly. “He’s going to try to take me out somewhere along the line. He’s going to betray me.” “Of course,” she said. “I expect superior, more creative treachery on your part.”_____“Nicodemus, his daughter, and God knows what else is in his crew,” I said. “I’m working with my hands tied, and you expect me to survive this game?” “If you want to live, if you want your friends and family to live, I expect you to do more than survive it,” Mab said, sweeping out. “I expect you to skin them alive.”Knowing Harry and his modus operandi, we don't doubt even for a second that skinning his enemies alive - even if only, thankfully, in a figurative sense - is going to be in the works. The question remains, however, - how much is it going to cost him and his friends, and how much mental strain, self-doubting and always keeping himself in check against the never-ending temptation of power he can take before the cracks begin to show.Restating his humanity and refocusing - that's what this book seems to have at its core. And Harry deals with it - as before, with a little help from his friends, because despite this best and often misguided intentions, he's not alone. But the danger of seductive power remains, and it's hanging over him even in the happiest moments.“I’m not sure I do anymore,” I said, “and it scares the hell out of me. What happens if she does it? What happens if she turns me into her personal monster? What is she going to do with me then?” “Oh, Harry,” Michael said. “You’re asking exactly the wrong question, my friend.”“What do you mean?” I asked. He looked at me, his face serious, even worried. “What is she going to do with you if she can’t?”_________Wonderful, fun, fast-paced story that makes me want to reread the previous 14 books so that I can once again relive this whole journey with Harry Dresden, the Wizard of the White Council, the Warden of Demonreach, The Winter Knight, the loyal friend, the worried father, and the awesome guy to grab a couple beers with.To me, you are perfect.