3.75 stars“I am the sister, the other Mozart. And her story is mine.”The Kingdom of Back is different from anything Lu has written in the past, which is likely why I enjoyed it so much. It's a breath of fresh air. This standalone novel's much quieter, devoid of the typical action scenes found in the Legend series, The Young Elites trilogy, and the Warcross duology. It is nonetheless powerful, a tragically accurate portrayal of a gifted musician barred from fame because of her gender.“Help me be worthy. Worthy of praise, of being loved and remembered. Worthy of attention when I bared my heart at the clavier. Worthy enough for my music to linger long after I was gone. Worthy of my father. Make them remember me.”In an old interview, Lu mentioned she loves writing sibling relationships because she's an only child and is hence fascinated with the dynamic. Nearly all her works have important sibling relationships: June and Metias from Legend, Day and Eden from Rebel, Adelina and Violet from the Young Elites. The Kingdom of Back has that in common if little else. The relationship between Nannerl and Wolfgang is gorgeously written and, in my opinion, far more sophisticated than those in her previous works. They actually read like real siblings because they fight over little things but are still fiercely loyal to each other. The biggest wedge between them, of course, is music. Nannerl knows her little brother isn't to blame, but she can't help occasionally resenting his privilege. He's free to compose music; she's not. Her father, whose approval she desperately wants, values Wolfgang more too simply because he's a boy. Also haunting Nannerl is the issue of age. Once she turns eighteen, she won't be lauded as a child prodigy anymore. She'll have to give up her clavier for wifehood.The fantasy elements provide no impact on the overall plot, but maybe Lu added them to spice up an otherwise quiet historical novel? The Kingdom of Back was an actual thing the Mozart siblings came up with, as you'll see in the author's note. Either way, I'm neutral on them. I do enjoy how Lu seamlessly weaves the fantasy aspects with the actual plot, like Nannerl's desperate desire to be remembered in history and Wolfgang's constant illnesses.The ending is perfection and true to the time period. Definitely recommended.