“They've never found the body of the first and only boy who broke my heart. And they never will.”Spoiler alert: they did, actually, and it didn't matter. Because nothing in this book makes any sense.This was so predictable and very disappointing. I’m not sure if I’m outgrowing YA or if I’m just picking up shitty YA books. Either way, I didn’t enjoy The Shadows Between Us at all. It felt extremely formulaic, severely underdeveloped, and wholly uninspiring. I was so bored.The Shadows Between Us is advertised as a Slytherin-inspired YA fantasy romance. However, the Slytherin "representation" is an excuse to write an unlikable character with very little growth, the "fantasy" element was very clearly shunted in just so the book could break into the YA fantasy market, and the "romance" was the most blegh thing I've read in a long time. I'm not sure what everyone else is seeing in this book that I'm not, but I'm getting real tired of reading books that seem to put in very minimal effort in regards to being unique or engaging.The author says that the main character is a Slytherin, and that irritates me. Why, you might ask? Because the author pulled a JK Rowling and took every negative quality about Slytherins and made it their only personality trait. This MC was self-serving, self-obsessed, selfish, and manipulative. I’m totally here for anti-heroes and morally gray characters, but this MC brought nothing to the story that was likable or sympathetic to me. Did you know Slytherins are more nuanced beyond just being assholes? What a concept! I guess the argument can be made that our main character is cunning and conniving, but honestly, I wasn't convinced. She just came across like a jerk who sometimes made suggestions that other characters found to be smart. But of course they would, because the author says so. Doesn't mean I believe it.The romance was bland and felt like a dynamic I’ve read a million times before. Nothing about this was exciting or fun, despite the fact that the romance was the main premise. How you gonna flop on an enemies to lovers trope THAT badly? I was expecting some serious angst, forbidden love, sexual tension, etc. None of that was brought to the table. Sure, the author tried, but it didn't work at all. I’m also irritated at how the sex positivity is only aimed towards women in this book. Women should have complete autonomy and respect (yes, of course) but female characters are allowed to use, disrespect, or persuade their partners sexually and thats okay? Maybe I’m looking into this too much, but all the sex positivity commentary felt like it was taken right from a vague white feminist Twitter thread. The plot was also a damn mess. The author tried to weave so many different threads but it was ultimately an awkward execution. It felt like something would be brought up, ignored for fifty pages, and then easily solved once the author remembered she had to do something to tie it up. I'm not sure what the ultimate point of this book was, to be entirely honest. Everything was solved so easily! In conclusion: this sucked for me. The Shadows Between Us is an unoriginal YA fantasy that rips off every trope and plot point thats been successful in the past; the only sellable difference is that the MC is an asshat who knows shes pretty and uses it to her advantage. Groundbreaking.