(4.5 ★’s)The poets can say whatever they damned like. A woman’s worth is not decided by what’s between her legs but by what is in her mind.First and foremost, I would like to address the people who say “this isn’t dark enough to be Slytherin” and if you’re one of them, I want to tell you—quite politely of course—to shut up. I’m not even sorry because that is the very point of this book: being Slytherin does not mean being a pure-evil, mustache-twirling doll. Being Slytherin means being ambitious, selfish, arrogant, vengeful, remorseless, power-seeking, and demanding-of-life...yes to all that; but it does not mean being incapable of warmth, caring, and protectiveness towards your numbered friends; it does not mean being senselessly evil and unfamiliar with reason; and it certainly does not mean being unable of letting go of a path which no longer seems practical to walk.And that’s the first of the three whys to me declaring this book as my new fave. So thank you, Tricia, for showing so accurately and immaculately what it actually is to be a Slytherin.“I know what I’m doing. And I’m going to keep doing whatever I wish, because I am the master of myself.”The second remarkable achievement of The Shadows Between Us is its romance and friendships—more specifically in how it shouts to the the world that no, a person does not have to change their personality, or cease to be the villain of a poor hero’s story, to be able to have healthy relationships; say, a Slytherin doesn’t have to become a Hufflepuff to love and care and be loved and cared for, only develope to better versions of themselves, with better understanding and acceptance without throwing their defining traits into the trash.So thank you, Tricia, for weaving this truth within these pages with colours and designs bold enough to be unmistakable.“I lose interest in everything sooner or later. Everything save you. Because in you, I found my match. In you, I found my equal.”The third and last of Tricia Levenseller’s attempts which make this book stand out to me is, undoubtedly, her desire to effectively set fire to the common trope of “antiheroes turning heroes” within YA fantasy. I simply cannot not fall in love with books that refuse to make remorseless, selfish characters into remorseful, selfless people going out of their way to help the poor; that’s not the only path for development within characters and please understand that because I’m effing sick of it. This book is the story of two self-absorbed, power-hungry people (who might as well be the villain of a lot of people’s lives) falling in love and growing in a different way, and that is why I love it.So thank you, Tricia, for giving the big eff you to the more popular theme of changing morally grey characters to white flags of peace and generosity.“I want the power to change things.”I utterly loved this book; picking up my very first work by Tricia Levenseller, I was expecting a fun romance-oriented young adult fantasy lite with morally grey characters, and that’s precisely what I got...but even better managed than I’d dared hope. It did not try to be something more and embraced its romantic YA fun and frivolities while adding elements of comfortably LGBT characters and diligently written feministic themes plus much appreciated sex positivism, all the more precious for its perfect banter and humourous writing, making me roll in laughter and cackle in delight on too many occasions.The Shadows Between Us is a refreshing fun and funny gem, providing our usual light YA read with a breath of fresh air away from the perfect, honourable, goody-two-shoes who seem to have taken over literature for decades and centuries. No wonder it spoke to me on so many impossible levels, as I happen to be part of a triad of Houses (Slytherfinclaw, each House at about 30%).Make sure to check out my playlist at the end of this review—it simply slayed me and my reading experience!StorylineIt’s been a fun game. Learning their secrets. Seducing them. Getting them to shower me with gifts.But to be honest?I’m bored with it.I have a new game in mind.Alessandra Stathos, this cunning second daughter of a bankrupt noble who has had to be hidden from society, waiting for her elder sister to marry so she, too, might be sold to noble for her bride-price, is tired of being overlooked. Never fear, she always has a plan, and this time it has three simple steps to get her the power and attention she deserves:⑴ Woo the king.⑵ Marry him.⑶ Kill him and rule his kingdom.“To you, Alessandra. May your wit never be used against me.”But not only is she not the sole person seeking to murder the king, the Shadow King is also not so easy to kill, the shadows that encompass him being a mystery to most of the six kingdoms. So stuck between charming the charming, uninterested king and keeping him alive to kill after he makes her a queen, she finds herself needing to remind herself of her path to the power she craves and delights in.StorytellingStarting from strengths, the flowing dialogue, top notch banter, and easy and hilarious writing that carries the occasional silliness and lightness of the tale as an advantage rather than a failing, are all points I applaud the author on. Plus the smart solutions, plans, and politics laid out throughout the plot which were simply delightful—Tricia Levenseller is all about showing, and that’s what made the cleverness of the characters so tangible. Not to forget the elaborate way in which the the feminism was handled, fighting for women’s right to not be judged as based on what they do in their bedrooms as men aren’t.However, the book does have its weakness, and that being the reveals and mystery—those are areas that need improvement in their manner of being tackled and I hope the author works more on said aspect to excel in future books.Characters“Alessandra Stathos, that’s positively despicable.” He says the words like they’re the highest compliment he can give me. “You are an absolute gem, do you know that?”✦ Alessandra: Disarmingly clever and conniving, shamelessly confrontational, unfaltering and no-nonsense, ruthlessly craving power, arrogantly ambitious, vengeful, selfish, independent, and thorough, she made me fall head over heels in love with her from the very first sentence of the book. My queen (because she indeed is one in every sense of the word) is always in control of situations as well as herself, and doesn’t take anyone’s shit so, as you might suspect, the usual moments in books when the MC would be guilt-ridden and reprimanded go quite differently, with her not backing down. Oh my rare treasure who, unlike almost every female protagonist, is not ashamed and confused by her sexuality. I love her.“When I see something I want, I reach for it without hesitation.”✦ Kallias: Gem number two—selfish, power-hungry conqueror; ruthless ruler and determined Shadow King...yes, but also refreshingly friendly, charming, intelligent, and accepting heartthrob and haunted soft-boy! I love it, okay? What’s most note worthy about him to me though is how he doesn’t turn into a benevolent, generous, and regretful king. He’s far from “evil,” and fights for rights that deserve to be cheered, he’s kind and not a terrifying, silent king, but that doesn’t take away from the fact that he crushed his subjects for funds to conquer all lands and continues to want power for himself. I appreciate this, because it goes to say that a person isn’t all-good or all-bad.✦ Other characters like daring Rhoda and sweet Hestia who’s simply afraid to be herself in fear of rejection and thus imitates successful individual in all aspects, as well as Leandros who is...charming and tragic and whatnot, all make this an enjoyable, unputdownable read that I devoured in less than a day.Relationships“I don’t think it’s necessarily about finding the perfect man but finding the perfect man for you. One person may rank a man far differently than another, even if they are both using your ranking system.”✧ Romance: Giving us an angsty yet clean dynamic filled with yearning and abstinence, my two enchanting and addictive clever babies do what few couples in YA do and—despite actually using one another for their own gains—communicate their feelings. They are understanding and accepting of each other, undeterred by what would usually break other YA couples dramatically, and actually cheer one another on in their darkest deeds. Their real and proper development and process of falling in love stands up and out of the page and is a bonus in Tricia Levenseller’s favour. And in all honestly I found it rather refreshing to have a fake-friends-to-lovers arc rather than an enemies-to-lovers one.Credit: Melanie BourgeoisI also really need to address the conclusion of the romance so I’ll be a good girl and put this in spoiler tags: the route it took makes absolute sense! Alessandra didn’t plan to kill the Shadow King out of vengeance or whatnot, she wanted power and since queens don’t get to rule kingdoms when a king is around, the only logical solution was to kill him. But when he gave her the power to rule beside him, there just wasn’t any other reason for Alessandra to murder him—why would she, when she’s finally found someone who understands her and is just like her? God knows I need me someone like that.“It was you who reminded me what it is to live.”✧ Friendship: Suffice it to say that the female friendships in this book are a rare, heartwarming blessing. The development, the steady support they discovered within one another. My heart is soaring.WorldbuildingSee, here’s the thing; there’s not a lot of world building going on in this standalone, and I’m shocked to say that did not bother me in the least—me, who loves this aspect so much she’d read tens of infodump-ish paragraphs explaining a fascinating new world. So how could this miracle possibly happen??? I’ll tell you how. Tricia Levenseller knew what she wanted to do—write a fun and addictive Slytherin romance—and did it with style. She didn’t make unsatisfactory attempts at world building or try to dip a finger into every pie and fail to dig deep enough in each (I’m looking at you, Serpent & Dove) and instead chose to focus on the her chosen elements and breathe wicked life into them.Tricia Levenseller doesn’t need an expansive world to make her work remarkable without loose ends and unsatisfactory dives. What she gives you, she writes like a pro; what she doesn’t give you...well you don’t need it anyhow. That’s what I call skilled writing.But a little on what there is in this area:I’m assuming the author was inspired by the late 19th or early 20th century, as are rifles and piping and electricity in this fantasy world of 9 nine realms—though with less rigid royals. I think what I appreciated most was how, despite applying the usual YA approach to simplify politics, etc, there is still attention paid to things such as existence of proper reasons for the coming of a new fashion (man I loved this). And oh did I relish seeing LGBT+ characters and relationships as the norm in a YA fantasy novel, not a theme to be explored but an accepted and light addition.The magic (same as the detail on the lands in general) is of course minimum again BUT it’s practically the core of their romance of abstinence, which is all this book is about anyways. I just want to appreciate that (1) while “shadow” powers are too common in YA fantasy and all tend to be nonsensical, I think this book made it what it was supposed to be because its nature of shadows and the ability it brings makes much more sense than, say, the Darkling’s shadows from Shadow and Bone, (2) plus, the title thankfully fits! It shows exactly what the book is about—a romance, with a fantasy element to have the dynamic depend on.✰ Did I enjoy this book? Immensely. I swallowed it up whole. TSBU is just what I needed at the moment—a fun romance that resonated with me and made laugh so hard and so often.✰ Do I recommend it? Undoubtedly. Just remember what to expect going in—not a ground breaking vengeance story about a girl who seeks to rule the world, but an enjoyable fantasy lite ride that’s all about da love between morally grey characters, and some clever, hilarious, and devious schemes.CompanionsBook playlist: Spotify URL