EDIT:This book maybe did not win the Goodreads Choice Awards but it's my winner the Best Young Adult Fantasy & Science Fiction category and that's enough for me. EDIT: Finding out that this book did not make it into the final round of the Goodreads Choice Awards. EDIT: IT WORKED! YES!YES!YES! You cannot imagine how happy I'm when I go to see the second round of the Goodreads Choice Awards and The Shadows Between Us are nominated in the Best Young Adult Fantasy & Science Fiction.The write-in worked! EDIT: Wow, I have to say that I was quite surprised that I did not see this book nominated in Young Adult Fantasy for the Goodreads Choice Awards. So, let's see if there is some power in the write-in option. ORIGINAL:Was this book perfect? No.Did this book deliver on everything I've expected from it? No. Do I care? No.Why? Because it was such a long time since I enjoyed "YA"/fantasy book so much as I did enjoy this one. As I previously mentioned, I was sold when this book was labelled as "Slytherin".If only he knew I have my sights set a bit higher than that.Yeah, I was hyped when I started this book, and the beginning was so good, I had problems to remember to breathe, and then I was close to hyperventilating. It was everything my Slytherin heart wanted. "People are staring.""That's the point, isn't it?"Alessandra was the kind of character I wanted. I'm so over the shocked girls who have no idea why people think that they are pretty or don't want to be in the situation 'cause they just want a nice simple life. Who are shocked by the evil people and don't get it why people are just so mean. Finally, a character who is very self-aware, has a goal, is ambitious and does not care what it takes to get what they want. Love it, and I need more books like this. I also loved every single time Alessandra chewed up someone or schemed. What I did not expect was to get more characters like that in the book. See that all the men who accompanied us on our outing are hanged.The King is just as ambitious. And at that point, I practically want to propose to this book. Plus the fact that Alessandra has an obsession with pretty dresses which she creates for herself, (Which made me realise how rare it is for female characters to have hobbies besides reading.) and that the friendships are a surprisingly fun and great addition to the story are not helping to me not being obsessed. There were several side plots which kept the story moving, so, I never really felt like nothing was happening. So, where did it go wrong? Because yeah, I love this book, but there are things which irked me, to say the least. First, the main "villain" (if you do not count Alessandra as the villain of the story) was very obvious. Plus the reason or explanation behind their actions was pretty easy to guess as well. I'm not angry by it, just disappointed. Second, Alessandra started great, but then I felt like a bit of her disappeared. The part which had a plan and was ready for everything. Like, please, if you get poison to kill someone and then change your mind, don't just chuck it somewhere. The dumb move is the season. Third, I did not really feel like we got a good grasp on the background, on the setting, and sometimes things just felt a bit confusing. But yeah, I get it, it's standalone, and while I may have some grief with the lack of world setting, I love the author for keeping it a standalone. Fourth, Kallias just sometimes felt a bit too mushy.And now, fifth and last, the ending. What is it with endings? I hoped for a different ending. More original.  It was again way too roses and pink. Everything was well and happy. And I just felt like something had to give. Something bad. Or just some huge power move. Just something which would leave me speechless the moment I would close the book. Only being able to say WOW. But this was a very forgettable ending. Average. And while I had four more issues with this book. The ending is the reason why I took one star away. -------------------------------------------------------------------Honestly? I'm still sad that I was declined for an ARC. 😥Because Slytherin romance is all I want (for Christmas?). I cannot wait to read this. Everyone should hope I won't be holding anything at the moment this gets published because I'll be dropping everything to get my hands on this.