Please, for the love of God, if I ever pine this hard after a man I dated at 19 (for only three months!) nine years later, somebody just kill me. I found the characters to be one-dimensional, boring, and very stereotypical. Vivienne is described (I kid you not) as the "Full Potter" or something equally ridiculous, because she didn't discover her magic until a late age. Maybe its later explained why her mom didn't like to do magic and tried to prevent Vivienne from doing any, but I never got that far. I was too busy staring blankly at the novel, trying to understand why a grown-ass woman cared so much about this guy who, reportedly, broke her heart. Nine years ago. When she was nineteen and he was twenty. (I seriously cannot get over this paper-thin, flimsy excuse for a backstory between these idiots). For all that Vivi's cousin Gwyn says that Vivi and Rhys have "sparks" or chemistry or whatever, I don't see it. He's as interesting as a pretty rock (it's beaten into your head that he's good-looking), and her whole character revolves around this fling from almost a decade ago. Vivi's constantly thinking about this fool, from mentally complaining that he probably hasn't gotten wine-drunk and stalked her on social media over the years (she has done that to him for some reason), to lamenting the fact that Rhys knows how upset she is over the curse because he saw her do magic and she just Doesn't Do That. I completely believe Gwyn could have cursed a sexy lamp to look and act like Vivi to fool Rhys and it would have no impact on the story. After all, I already had to read about how the magic cave that houses the ley lines has an "atmosphere" or something that makes people horny (I wish I was joking), and how much Vivi resented Rhys for bringing her to a "magic sex cave." When she's the one who accepted his invitation to come along... for reasons...that don't make sense...because she professes to hate this man and his existence so of course she'll tag along, alone, with him to some mystery magic cave. Makes perfect sense. We already tried to Girl Boss at the start by abandoning him on the side of the road after his car breaks down, but now we suddenly want to spend time with him? I give up.