Let ancient magic weave its soporific spell. Choose your path, your destiny, and your friends wisely.Take care of what you touch along the way.Beware the briars and spiders’ webs that would entrap and cocoon you. Don’t be beguiled by transient and superficial beauty.Let ancient magic weave its soporific spell.Image: Dedications to daughters, illustrated with dwarfs“Once upon a time....”Words we love to hear and, a generation later, read aloud. Snuggled in a comfy chair, adult wrapping child in loving arms, sharing the journey through enchanted worlds.This physically sumptuous book doesn’t open with those words, but it doesn’t need to. It immediately has the welcoming familiarity of folklore and the rhythm of myth. But that is sharpened by twists of tangled thorns, and frissons of melancholy and menace. It is eternal, but fresh. Entrancing, and new. It’s ideal for children, but equally delightful for adults in a suitable frame of mind - or wanting to be, as I was. Escape to childhood for half an hour.It has elements of Snow White and Sleeping Beauty, set in an echo of Middle Earth, led by the women who are largely absent in Tolkien's world, plus (male) dwarfs. All are nameless, the better for us to know them, and maybe be them. Image: The young Queen: brave, logical, creative, and with “a tone of casual command”.Few adults will be greatly surprised by the tweaks in plot, but no matter: one isn’t with traditional tellings either. I loved it. “They felt the castle long before they saw it, felt it as a wave of sleep that pushed them away. If they walked towards it their heads fogged, their minds frayed, their spirits fell, their thoughts clouded.”Fine Art for All the SensesImage: The sleeper and the spinner?If I’d read just the words, this would have been a solid 3*, but I’ve long loved Riddell’s work, and he, along with the publisher and printers, raise the book to a realm above the high mountain range that even crows do not cross. The pictures are black and white, pen and ink, with occasional, dramatic use of gold. The lettering is exquisite in its own right. The pages are thick, glossy, and fragrant. The hard cover has an additional layer of illustration overlaid on semi-opaque paper. Photos cannot do it justice. Image: Part of the two-layered cover