The book of pure thaumaturgic bliss, mana and everafters!What character dev!!!!! I feel like I've never seen more dev to happen (OK, I probably have but that's how I felt after reading it!)Even places grow brains, balls and all kinds of conscience here! Which is just to show how awesomely developed everyone and everything get!!!!! This is gonna be forevermore known as the book where Patience ate Fortitude!Q:As a general rule, regardless of the specific situation in which you find yourself, at every step you must take care to preserve or widen the number of your options. (c) This, I want to engrave me somewhere!What a grad scene! (Galadri)el and Orion?????!!!!! Now, that's the kind of graduation to behold!The lovely lovelies:Q:When I cast spells, there are usually copious side manifestations, generally designed to convey to anyone watching that they should probably be fleeing in terror or alternatively dropping to their knees and doing homage. (c)Q:The thing is, I’m not actually unique in the history of wizard society; not even Orion is, really. We’re both once-in-a-generation talents, but those happen, as you might have guessed, once in a generation. It is a bit of a coincidence that we’re in school at the same time, and that we’re both fairly extreme examples. (c)The quotes of generation that should generate a cult following:Q: I could almost have felt sorry for Jermaine, who’d worn the expression of a person trying to have an important conversation with a brick wall. (c)Q:But my own main concern is how to avoid accidentally sucking the life force out of everyone around me if I ever get taken by surprise and instinctively fire off something really gargantuan. For instance, I’ve got this great spell for razing an entire city to the ground, which will certainly come in handy if I ever turn into one of those people who write furious letters to the editor about the architecture of Cardiff, and I suppose it would do to wipe out any mals on the same floor as me. Along with all the other people on the same floor as me, but they’d probably be dead by then, since I’d have drained their mana to cast the spell. (c)Q:Most of the religious or spiritual people I know—and to be fair, they’re mostly the sort of people who land in a vaguely pagan commune in Wales, or else they’re terrified wizard kids crammed into a school that’s trying to kill them—regularly beseech a benevolent and loving all-wise deity to provide them with useful advice through the medium of miraculous signs and portents. Speaking as my mother’s daughter, I can say with authority that they wouldn’t like it if they got it. You don’t want mysterious unexplained advice from someone you know has your best interests at heart and whose judgment is unerringly right and just and true. Either they’ll tell you to do what you want to do anyway, in which case you didn’t need their advice, or they’ll tell you to do the opposite, in which case you’ll have to choose between sullenly following their advice, like a little kid who has been forced to brush her teeth and go to bed at a reasonable hour, or ignoring it and grimly carrying on, all the while knowing that your course of action is guaranteed to lead you straight to pain and dismay. (c)Q:“After you’ve been doing whatever you’re doing that is not dating but totally looks like dating to everyone else, for only two months.” (c)Q:“To be fair, you’re the only person I’ve ever met who’d come up with the idea of being wildly rude and hostile to the guy who saved your life twenty times,” (c)Q:Oh, who am I lying to? My supply of grace wouldn’t overflow an acorn cap. (c)Q:When I cast spells, there are usually copious side manifestations, generally designed to convey to anyone watching that they should probably be fleeing in terror or alternatively dropping to their knees and doing homage. (c) Nice to know there's a wonderfully OCD-ish streak to Galadriel's affinity!Q:I’m reasonably sure that’s because there’s some violation of balance being redressed on our backs. Dad nobly walks into a maw-mouth for an eternity of pain to save me and Mum; she gives out too much healing for free; I end up with an affinity for violence and mass destruction. The year before that, twelve maleficers murdered the entire senior class, so a hero who would save hundreds of kids in school got conceived. The moral physics of the principle of balance: equal and opposite reactions totting up on both sides. (c)Q:They were all delightedly hoping to give me exactly the post-Scholomance life I’d dreamed of for years. The bastards. (c)Q:Chloe had once told me with a perfectly straight face that Orion didn’t want anything except to kill mals, which was absolute bollocks, but it was the kind of absolute bollocks that I’m certain everyone around him his entire life had so strongly encouraged that it had got lodged in his own head. (c)Q:“Half the time he can’t recognize me unless I’m with you. He pretends to when I say hi to him in shop, but every time his brain goes into this panicky loop like who is she oh no I’m supposed to know her oh no I’m failing at human. And it’s not just me, he does it to everyone. He could probably tell you every last mal he’s killed in the entire time he’s been at school, but us human beings all get filed under the generic category of future potential rescue. I don’t know why he can see you, I think it’s because you’re some crazy super-maleficer in waiting. (c) Aspy much?Q:“No, you aardvark, (c)Q:My inner being is exceptionally cranky and I often don’t want her company myself... (c)Q:Either she was ambitious or she loved languages madly or maybe she was just a tremendous masochist, I had no idea. (c)Q:Artifice is fundamentally about giving the universe a long and complicated story complete with attractive props in order to coax it to accommodate your wishes. I’m really more about shouting the universe into compliance with mine. (c)Q:I did try saying things like, “I won’t bite,” only I said it while seething, so the message that actually got conveyed was that biting would be mild by comparison with whatever I would do instead. And of course they believed me. (c)Q:I wasn’t clear on whether it counted as him using the freshmen as bait if they were the ones staking themselves out. (c)Q:No one would ever in ten thousand years have imagined that if someone tried to kill me in the gym, I’d respond by rebuilding the gym fantasia and creating a fresh torment for everyone in the school, including myself. I certainly wouldn’t have imagined it. (c)Q:If I do make it out of here, I should look up the Dominus of Shanghai. He’s the only other living person who’s ever done it. We could compare notes. Or we could look each other in the face and just start screaming together, which feels more appropriate to me. (c)Q:I don’t think my appearance was reassuring. I emerged trailing clouds of dark-green smoke flickering phosphorescent with crackles of lightning, the dwindling remnants of the hurricane I’d whipped up to dissolve the shambling army of frozen-mud-things. There was also the large ring of glowing orange-purple balefire spheres orbiting round my waist. The workings all fizzled out as I came through the doors, but they hung in the air just long enough to make a fashion statement of the behold your dark goddess variety, and anyway I’d been standing there just short of the threshold for five minutes, siccing spheres and thunderbolts on strategic targets to clear a way to the doors. (c)Q:basically all twenty-seven girls of our group trudged off to the showers together. It was almost time for Orion to harvest the amphisbaena for Liesel; the juveniles had stopped coming through with the water a week ago or so and now were just hissing and banging impotently at us from inside the showerheads like the steam pipes had gone mad. There was one moment when the wall cracked around one of the showerheads and the amphisbaena inside started to thrash around wildly to try and finish breaking out, but it was just an amphisbaena, so the girl using the shower didn’t even stop rinsing her hair, she just grabbed a long enchanted stiletto-knife out of her bathroom bag and stabbed it into the opening. The showerhead stopped moving around. It would be unpleasant if the dead amphisbaena started rotting in there, but probably the others would eat it before that happened. (c) Nice. I'm sorta proud of these kids growing up. Q:__________________________________Dd Dec 5, 2020. Yes! I want this one right now. (A bit sad I read the 1st one without waiting for the whole series being out there ready for me :) )I expect it to be 5-star worthy. The rating is subject to changing on the basis of m getting my hands on the actual book whenever it gets published.Dd 15 June 2021: Hmmmm..... I want it yesterday.... Where is my time machine?