Hahahahahahahahahahahaha.That ending.. I just.. the only two options are stupefied silence or hysterical laughter and right now I'm alternating between the two.Weirdly enough, with nine minutes left on the kindle countdown, I put the book down. I could almost sense something. But that bit of warning was not enough to prepare me for t h a t."[..] you're the only person I've ever met who'd come up with the idea of being wildly rude and hostile to the guy who saved your life twenty times.""Thirteen times! And I've saved his life at least twice.""Catch up already, girl."Goodness, wow, so. Yeah, lots of my feelings about this book have been eclipsed by all the nonsense above but I will say this. I was delighted to return to this world for one main reason : I had forgotten how delightfully prickly El was. Being back in her space, watching her interact with people, it was often hilarious because she is constantly battling the general feeling of "not putting up with this shit" which, I mean, same. But she's also in a much better place than she was in the beginning of book one so she's also struggling to remember she has friends and how that's changed her life, yes, but also changed her odds of surviving the Scholomance. And those opposing forces are just as funny as she is.I was unenthusiastic about the prospect of being found attractive because I seem like a terrifying creation of dark sorcery instead of despite it.Also there was maybe a very short, tiny, little scene that ambushed some tears out of me. Unexpected.My one.. not complaint, really, but observation, is that there is a lot going on in this world, in the day to day, and Novik strings together some long-ass sentences sometimes -- and as a result I completely lose the original thought or point and have to reread or, occasionally, just give up and keep going. It doesn't always feel like dense fantasy when there's action or bickering or brainstorming but there are huge swaths of this that is actually quite wordy or complicated. Sometimes I gobbled it up, other times, well, like I said, I just cruised on by. That said, maybe I sabotaged myself a bit because I didn't adjust my pace to actually take time to process it all, so, maybe it's my own fault. But unlike most magical schools or learning sequences, this author doesn't gloss over anything. We are with them as they learn, as they do homework, as they team up and help each other, because not doing the work is sometimes just as dangerous as the monsters crawling through the vents.I had such a good time with this one. The banter, the action, the romance, the snark, the cut-throat ruthlessness, and, yeah, even that e n d i n g.. I can't wait for book three (and this isn't even out yet, arg!).** I received an ARC from the publisher (thank you!) in exchange for an honest review. **---This review can also be found at A Take From Two Cities.