Reread, as we're almost at book three's release date - how have we all survived that cliffhanger? Not long to go now!THAT ENDING THOUGH.There isn't anything much more dangerous in the world than a fully grown wizard. That's why the mals have to hunt us when we're young. We're the real apex predators, not the maw-mouths that after all just sit by the doors mumbling to themselves and occasionally groping around for some supper. Once through the gates, we'll be carving our dreams into the world like gleeful vandals scratching graffiti on the pyramids, and we won't look behind us. But only once we're out.Sophomore slump? Not a chance, though it's probably no surprise that Naomi Novik doesn't have that issue. Instead, The Last Graduate built on all the bits I loved about the first book, improving on something I already thought was absolutely top-notch.If you couldn't tell from the extract above, there's a bit of a tonal shift in this book - El's come a long way since the start of book one, and without immediate survival problems and all the stress they bring, she's actually got room to think in bigger picture terms. Turns out she's just as good at that as she probably would be at going full destruction mode; because by the end of this second instalment it's clear she's thinking big.I love El, and even more by the time I was finished with this book - it's hard enough to be a good person without constant pressure from the universe to go all dark queen, fight off monsters at every turn, and deal with the fact that people just intuitively don't seem to like you. But sometimes it can be harder to be good when you do start getting everything you've ever wanted, when you actually do have options. El's not annoyingly perfect (no chance), she feels very real, and very consistently willing to choose a rougher path to do the right thing. This is such a great series that it's even getting a pass for one of the most outrageous cliffhangers I've ever read. A pass doesn't mean I'm not going to complain, of course. But there are books that put in cliffhangers to get you to read the next, and that's a cheap trick I cannot stand. This one, though, feels like Naomi Novik knows we're already hanging out for the next book and just wants to playfully torment the hell out of us. I may grumble for the next year, but I'm coming back regardless.