Dear Author,First of all I would like to compliment you on book 1 and 2 of this saga, because they not only were written exceptionally well, they also bespoke of an acute, detail/oriented, forward/thinking mind. Unfortunately, these are also the reasons behind my poor rating: while your writing ability remains intact, the carefully planned strategies you had shown us in the past two books quite simply disappear, and are replaced by sheer luck. SPOILERS AHEADChapter two: Laurent wakes up bound to a chair in the prison cells of Fontaine and the only thing we are told is that there was an ambush and that Laurent does not want to think about what happened to his men. How is this possible Miss Pacat? We leave Laurent at the end of book two with 120 riders that have just demonstrated their worth at Hellay and are ready to fight to take Fortaine, to suddenly find out, without any explanation, that said strong contingent has not only been ambushed and defeated (how? by a stronger contingent? If so, whose men where those?), but that Laurent, when he saw his men being attacked and understood he might loose, did not even try to send a messenger to Damen to inform him. But let us suspend our judgment for a minute and concentrate on Laurent, bound to that chair, with his right shoulder dislocated and with the hilt of a knife protruding from it: ladies and gentlemen, prepare yourselves for a miracle: Laurent manages to pick up a heavy oak chair and swing it with enough force to stun and later kill Govert. Now, I am not a medical doctor, but this whole scene seems a bit far fetched to me, and more appropriate to a Rambo/like film. Miss Pacat however has not finished: Laurent is now free, while Guion is confined inside the cell, and the author presents the situation as if it were Laurent the one with the upper hand. But let us reflect one minute: we were told that the Prince of Vere was tied to a chair in the cells of Fortaine, which means that he actually was inside Fortaine, which means that, even if he managed to escape his cell he still is inside the enemy’s fortress, and I do not suppose that an enemy fortress is quite that easy to escape from. Moreover Laurent’s threat to leave Guion inside the cell is supposedly enough to convince him to cooperate, but there are two main problems with this scenario: if the master of the keep suddenly disappears I do believe that his people would search for him, and they would presumably search the whole keep, and the cells are part of it, so it would be quite impossible not to find him. Secondly, let us imagine we are Guion: Laurent threatens us and we are scared enough to accept his conditions... But as soon as Laurent let us out from that cell our best interest would be to renege our deal and to kill him: he is alone in our keep, where the men are loyal to us and his uncle would reward us for it, while helping Laurent would only cause us problems, so Guion’s sudden choice to help the Prince of Vere does not truly make sense. Chapter three: who are the prince’s men camped outside Fortaine? Are they what remains of Laurent’s forces after they were ambushed? Are they Fortaine keep’s men that became the prince’s men when Guion shifted his loyalties? Or are they part of the Regent’s army, sent to help Guion ambush Laurent’s forces? And, if so, why has their commander suddenly decided to abandon the Regent? Just because Guion said so? Chapter four: Laurent bargains with Damen. This is where Laurent’s personality goes from rational and calculating to emotional: the prince needs Damen’s help to win the war, and he decides the best way to do that is to reveal to his would be ally how he used and manipulated him, and then to threaten him. The author would have us believe that a man like Laurent, instead of using Damen’s feelings to further his own goals, decides to unload his resentment and bitterness right when a united front would be most important. Chapter seven: the banner men of Delpha are called to pledge themselves to fight alongside Damen, and one of them is worried that Vere could have undue influence over Akieos due to the fact that Laurent and Damen are lovers. Laurent is able to assuage Barieus’ fears telling him that one would be ice/cold to sleep with one’s brother’s killer, so basically denying the accusation. A few chapters later however Laurent and Damen are discovered by an akielon soldier while in bed together, and inexplicably nobody is surprised or angered by this, especially the Veretians show no reaction to the fact that their leader is bedding the prince/killer, alias who is probably the most hated man in the whole country. Nobody questions Laurent’s decision or leadership, nobody worries about Damen’s possible influence over him. Chapter nine: the games. Miss Pacat, I do understand the need to make the lead character stronger and better than everybody else, but there is no need to make him super/human. Not only in chapter two Damen, like a perfect killing machine, seems almost able to win the fight all by himself, but now he is even able to catch a flying spear with his bare hand, and than, not satisfied enough with that, he is able to throw it ”over the full, impossible length of the field, to thunk into the target alongside Laurent’s spear...”. Bravo Terminator!Let us talk about Makedon now: there are no shadows of gray with his character, in fact at first he hates all things Veretian, and then, after Laurent’s skill at okton and at drinking he does a 180 turn and suddenly he behaves warmly towards the prince and speaks to him ”as he might with a favoured nephew a bit slow at learning”. This seems a bit far fetched to me and not an appropriate reflection of reality, exactly like a teetotaler suddenly able not only to drink a lot, but to maintain control and best an usual drinker to a game. Furthermore, during the discussion about tactics Laurent is completely silent... What a change from the prince we met in the second book, that stayed awake long hours at night to discuss precisely tactics with Damen.!Chapter thirteen: after their night together Damen and Laurent talk together and Laurent describes his plans and contingencies, and this makes Damen quite happen because he sees it as a way for the prince to be open with him. But at kingsmeet, later on, we discover that Laurent had decided from the beginning to give himself up to his uncle in exchange for the child, so when Laurent spoke with Damen either he lied to him or omitted the truth. In any case this shows a lack of trust between the two and results in a situation in which Laurent (the supposed strategist), is completely at the mercy of his uncle and it befalls Damen to think of a way to free him.Chapter seventeen to the end: here lies my main problem with the book, in fact what happens in these three chapters is pure, unaltered, sheer luck and not the forward thinking, the complicated strategies, Miss Pacat has enthralled us with in the previous books. First problem: Damien decides to come alone to Ios and to surrender himself to the regent. This leads to his being brought in front of the Veretian council, where Laurent is being tried: Damen is lucky, because nothing guaranteed this particular outcome, which in fact clearly benefits only him, and neither his half/brother or the regent (usually quite smart), that could have, for example kept him in a cell to deal with later, at their own convenience. In chapter eighteen we discover Damen great plan is to call Guion to the stand, which results in utter disaster, until we find out that Laurent’s plan had been all along to have Guion’s wife testify: so now the author suggests that Laurent planned this whole situation, presumably to save the day, but only a few pages later we find out that Laurent brought Loyse simply to clear Damen’s name. How in the world does this make sense? Laurent's great plan would be this: in case Damen is as stupid as me, and decides to simply give himself up, like a sacrificial lamb, I will make sure to bring a witness to testify his innocence, except that this will not help him at all, because the minute Damen gives himself up to the regent and to Kastor he is dead, regardless of the council’s decision, and I refuse to believe that a mind like Laurent did not understand this. The only possible explanation is that Laurent has transformed into a besotted fool, which is truly a shame, because in this case means that love, instead of making him stronger, has simply reduced his intellectual faculties. But now comes the best part: Damen, the loyal brute we all know and love, has a moment of brilliance and makes a connection nobody, not even Laurent (our resident genius) had been able to do before: there is somebody in that group able to testify against the regent: again sheer luck. But this is not simply luck, this is the ”Deus ex/machina” one would expect from a playwrighter, something spectacular and unexpected, able to solve any problem and guarantee an total victory for our heroes, without any planning needed. There is only one problem with this kind of device: you need to suspend belief, you need not question how it happened, because soon as you do that, you realize it is completely unbelievable. Does the author truly want us to believe that miraculously Damen made that connection and that the man with all the answers is right there, ready to speak and with a very convenient letter that he brought with him, just in case something like this were to happen? And why has this man not spoken before (for example with Laurent)? And if Damen had not called him out, would he not have spoken on his own? And how many probabilities were there that this mysterious man, of all the people it could be (Jord, for example), is precisely the doctor, the right man in the right place? Again I repeat: sheer luck.Finally, one last inaccuracy: Laurent has been bound with his hands behind his back for hours and hours, but a few minutes after being freed he is able to fight with a sword and to defeat a seasoned fighter like Kastor.Dear author, I am truly sorry, because you are a gifted writer and I cannot but ask myself how and why this whole débacle happened. As I do not personally know you (a shame because I would like to compliment you on the idea behind this saga and on the first two books, that were absolutely exceptional and breath/taking), the only thing I can say that changed between the first two books and the third is the publisher, Penguin, and I wonder if, and how, this might have had an impact on your work. I wish you the best and hope you will continue your writing career, because a talent like yours rarely present itself. Please forgive me if my review was in any way offensive to you, I assure you this was not the intention but unfortunately when one has to criticize something the line between constructive critique and attack are not always that clear.Elena GiaconP.S. I beg your pardon for any grammatical mistakes, as an Italian I do often have troubles with English grammar...