I wish this book would have been around when I was about 11, I know it would have been one of my favorites. As it is, I wish I knew a 11-13 year old girl who loves to read so I could buy this for her. If anyone knows of one and will let me adopt her for about 15-20 minutes tops, let me know! :)One thing I like to do with books is going into them completely blind with little to no idea what it is about. Tabula rasa style. I often don’t even read the back of the book. Some of the time this “tabula rasa” approach to novels works out really well for me because I have no preconceived notions of what the book “should” be about, and so I am able to focus on the merits of the book free of any bias. Sometimes, however, it does not work out so favorably and I end up reading books that I abhor and throwing said book and muttering things like, “what is this garbage?”. At any rate, my point is, I really had no idea what this book was about before I started reading it. I saw that a lot of my friends had ranked it very highly and that it was available at my library for immediate checkout so I thought I would give it a whirl. The book started off a little rough for me BECAUSE I didn’t realize that it was not so much a YA but early teen and had been classified as YA because of its mature character relationships. Once I realized that I was able to sit back and really enjoy the story. And, boy, did I enjoy it. What a great, uplifting story. Simply put; a wonderful book. What is the old proverbial saying that all real-estate people are supposed to live by? “Location, Location, Location”. You are probably wondering what that has to do with anything so let me try to e’splain. -Although I found this book enticing and wonderful and lovely, it was clearly not written for me and my demographic; it was written for kids. And by that token I am giving this book 4 & 1/2 stars instead of a full five but I am going to mark it as a 5 because I think it deserves that rating. Check it out if you haven’t already, it is an easy read and I think anyone could enjoy this book, I know I really liked it!