The Book Eaters by Sunyi Dean is a Blend of Fantasy, Horror, and Speculative Fiction!Living on the Yorkshire Moors is an ancient and secretive line of families known as Book Eaters. They sustain themselves by eating books and retaining the information contained within them. Each genre releases a unique flavor in each book that is consumed. Devon Fairweather is a member of one of these families. She grew up on a seclude manor never knowing any women, raised on a diet primarily of fairytales and cautionary tales while her brothers devoured tales of bravery and adventures.  Book Eater marriages are arranged between the families for the sole purpose of reproduction. Daughters are rare and valued for their ability to reproduce. Sons are plentiful and often tossed aside. The reproduction process is vital to the dwindling Book Eater population. Devon has been told that she will marry Luton Winterfield but has little knowledge beforehand of what the marriage process entails or, more pointedly, what awaits her after the birth of each of her children...The Book Eaters is my first Dark Fantasy read and I didn't even realize it. I went in thinking this was Dystopian Fiction and boy was I way off. This is called Dark Fantasy for a reason. It's atmospheric and bleak, with equal parts disturbing and horrific. And, by the way, books aren't the only thing some of these characters eat.The writing is striking, mesmerizing and carries you through the story with the pull of the author's creativity and originality. Despite the cringe worthy parts, the world building is imaginative, detailed, and fairy-tale like in many aspects.The Book Eaters has a supernatural feel to it but instead of vampires, these monsters are Book Eaters who live in a gothic-like patriarchy. If you're looking for a well-balanced society, you won't find it here.I read a print copy while listening to the audiobook and enjoyed both formats. However, audio is always my preference and it was true for this experience, as well. Katie Erich's narration was clear and concise, and her gender voicing top notch. The one issue I experienced, and it's usually a deal-breaker for me, I didn't connect with any of the characters. Not even Devon. But I did love-to-hate every single one of them and that's what made the difference for me. I highly recommend The Book Eaters to readers of Dark Fantasy and Horror!4.25 ⭐ Thank you to Tor Books for a physical ARC of this book through Shelf Awareness. It has been an honor to give my honest and voluntary review.