4.75 starsAtmospheric, gripping and profoundly moving, The Book Eaters is a 2022 new release to watch out for!! Told with gorgeous, effortless prose and exploring themes of motherhood, identity and sacrifice. It can be at times brutal and heart-breaking but ultimately leaves you with a feeling of hope and an emphasis on the importance of chosen family and love. The Book Eaters follows the story of Devon, a book eater princess, raised in seclusion in the yorkshire countryside and kept secret from the human world. Devon is part of a society known as the book eaters who eat books in order to survive. They are made of up of multiple Families, reminiscent of noble families of regency era England, with women treated in a similar fashion to be bargained and traded between families to have children. The story starts when Devon is a bit older and has run away into the human world with her son, Cai. She is on the run from multiple aspects of her past (slowly revealed through flashbacks, which also provide a lot more insight into book eater society) and at the same time trying to keep her son alive. Cai is a variant of the book eaters known as mind eaters - which is exactly what it sounds like - in which he has to eat brains to survive. This book really snuck up on me with how much I loved it. The quietly poetic writing, themes of motherhood and queerness, an imaginative alternative england, the use of the phrase "it'll be reet" (as a yorkshire lass this made me unreasonably happy lol), the balance of action/drama with more heartfelt moments - everything just combined perfectly to create a book that was ultimate katy bait. I really liked all the characters, especially Devon - she really carried the story with her heart and hardships she faces. The decisions and sacrifices she has to make for the sake of her children are very moving and heart-breaking at times but also felt very realistic and a reflection on humanity and motherhood. I also really loved some of the other characters, especially Cai and Jarrow (Devon's son and best friend who helps her escape the book eater respectively). I also enjoyed the hint of romance - I wasn't expecting this book to be sapphic so that was a very pleasant surprise and I especially liked Devon's journey with realising her queerness once she is in human society and how she had never even realised it could be an option for her before. The themes in this book were really on point and well explored. I loved seeing the insight into book eater culture and how the mind eaters are treated as monsters and the politics within the book eater world to control them. One of the Families has a substance called redemption which means mind eaters can eat books to survive but they are beholden to this one family having a monopoly. There is also a lot of discussion around religious fanaticism (but not actual religion more just an allegory) and the world of the book eaters is very cult-like and Devon journey and emotions in escaping them definitely has parallels with people in real life who have escaped cults. Overall I would highly recommend this book, it is definitely one of my top 5 books I've read so far this year! Especially if you enjoy murder sapphics, a super precious mother/son dynamic, heart pounding espionage drama and some good ol' patriarchy bashing.