I get easily frustrated by urban fantasy. I love it, but what we're doing here, in general, is exploring the modern world with an "other" that feeds into our cultural understanding of monstrosity to juxtapose against humanity. I don't think this one touched any of that.CONTENT WARNING:  separation of mother and child, cannibalism, extreme sexism, early menopause, sexual slavery, sex trafficking, homophobia Things that were fun:-Take on vampirism. A little different!-Mothers front and center. We don't see many moms in fantasy from the mom's perspective. This has one! She loves her kids!Things that made no sense:-Book eater rules. Going into real spoilers here. Okay, so let's pretend that someone who is effectively a human actually has the digestive tract of a caterpillar, but can also eat human food and get drunk. They can't write, but they can share information verbally, via tap/Morse, they can program phones with numbers, they can call those numbers...it doesn't make sense. Plus they have marriage contracts, enforced not by mind eaters but the book eaters. Then, the phyisiology of the very inbred bookeaters has all the women go through early menopause, they all have exactly 2 kids, and men are never impotent. If their reproduction is similar to humans, this again, illogical. Going to Ireland to escape them, illogical. They have cars!. The medicine, also weird. I don't understand. So some book eaters actually eat memories, but can get sustenance from physical books instead? How does that work? I get it's magic, but it tries to make it line up enough that I can't overlook the plot holes. -Hamfisted. Why is there sexism when women are prized this much and knowledge is their domain? Why is their society structured this way? We didn't examine it.-Shoehorned in queerness. It was brought up a lot but I don't get why it was such a key point of the characters when we didn't see them engage with this fact about themselves at all. Not that all queer folk need to be seeking relationships, but normally, aside from knowing in yourself that you are some identity, it doesn't come up in conversation unless it's relevant. Her thinking sapphic thoughts would be fine, her talking about it all the time seemed to be another unexplored plot.-Writing. I'm told the audio is the way to go. The characters kept picking up and putting down Yorkshire accents in the writing.It was...fine. Probably more interesting than much of the oughties UF, but in the same vein, if you'll excuse the pun.