SpoilersI mostly disliked this, the main character was an irritating twit, the plot consisted of a mish-mash of nothing, and then there was the weird WTF ending. I did however like the magical system/elements (up until the end), the book-talk (well, some of it), the setting/descriptions of Wales, and how fast it was to read.-What's what: Teenager and speshul snowflake, Mori, is reunited with her estranged dad and sent to a boarding school after some unexplained Bad Thing happened to her and her now dead twin sister. Her evil mother somehow caused the Bad Thing, she wanted power or world domination or something (I'm not quite sure). There's also fairies and magic which only Mary Sue Mori and a couple of others can see, the fairies are bloody useless and tell Mori to do random things to help nature or the world or something (again not quite sure). Most of the book though consists of Mori banging on about how smart she is, her boring school life, and the various mostly obscure/old SFF books she's read/reading. -I wasn't impressed with the diary format, it was poorly done and felt fake. Some of the entries were believably written but others not so much. There were too many entries which contained info-dumps and linear/perfectly remembered dialogue/conversation - they didn't read like diary entries at all.-What was with the point of giving the life history of Mori's extended family? There were so many paragraphs and descriptions of her relatives, I thought they would be important somehow but they weren't, they were mentioned the once and then never mentioned again. Everything about them was utterly irrelevant.-Didn't much like Mori's character, she was stuck up, self involved, and judgemental (though she claimed she wasn't). She treated the girls at her boarding school like rubbish, she looked down at them, acted crazy around them and tried to scare them. Yet she had the nerve to be upset when they weren't fawning over her and being friends with her. She didn't make any effort with the girls at her school, she pretty much hated all of them even the ones she thought of as friends. Did she ever consider that she was the problem and not them? Nope, they were all bitches and she was the innocent one. Ugh.The more I read about Mori, the more I dislked her, she was so unsympathetic. She was a like a robot most of the time, she was more or less indifferent to her supposedly beloved twin sister's death. She had more emotions and thoughts about a guy she knew for a few weeks, it was so unrealistic. Where was her grief, anger and loss at her sister's death? They were meant to be close but it was hard to tell with the way Mori went on with her life. She didn't need to be in tears but she could have at least showed some emotion when it came to her sister.-I was disappointed that the climactic and most significant event which happened in Mori's life occurred before the book even began. Among Others was basically a look into what comes after the end of an epic story/battle. I was waiting to find out why Mori was the way she was, how she came to be where she was, and what the Big Thing that happened to her actually was. But it was never really explained, it was referenced loads but there was no detail or real insight given. It was the most significant thing that ever happened to her, it apparently changed her, and lead her to where and who she as at the start of the novel yet the author felt no need to give proper answers or detail into that part of her life. Why leave out the most interesting aspect of the main character?! -There were way too many references to old/classic sci-fi/fantasy books, I hadn't heard of most of them. Whenever they were brought up and used to make a point or a comparison it went over my head and left me a little lost.I did enjoy the general bookish tidbits like the book shopping, the library parts, the MC's love for reading, but I wasn't impressed with the mentions of the more obscure SFF books, especially when they were being used to illustrate a point.Also, I found it hard to believe how much Mori was able to read, she read dozens of hefty books in a matter of days, she couldn't possibly have had that much free time. -I was disgusted at Mori's dad (Daniel) wanting to have sex with her and then Mori brushing of the almost rape and incest as nothing. Her reaction was bizarre. Why wasn't she disturbed or afraid? It was like it was no big deal for a dad to come on to their teenage daughter. Not only that there was a part where Mori actually considered having sex with him and regretted telling him no. Where did that come from?! Then it was all forgotten about and never mentioned again, it was unreal how it didn't affect Mori's relationship with her dad in the slightest. It was even more infuriating that by the end Daniel was made out to be a good guy, as if it was perfectly fine for him to get drunk, slip in his daughter's bed and try to have sex with her. It was shrugged off as if it was no big deal for a dad to want/try to have sex with their teenage daughter, as if it was just a silly mistake and as if dads that do that are essentially good guys. Ugh, I hated how the almost rape/incest was handled, it was glossed over and written in such a light manner.-I thought things couldn't get any worse after the dad thing but it did, the story turned into a cheesy YA romance in the latter half, with Mary Sue Mori getting the attention of Wim - the hottest, baddest, sluttiest guy ever. Of course, all the other girls Wim dated were as Wim put it 'morons' who he didn't actually like but was happy to fuck. Naturally, Mori was different to all the other girls, ugh. Why would Mori even want Wim when he treated Ruthi and all his other ex's like rubbish? He dumped Ruthi when he though she might be pregnant. Why would Mori be cool with that when her own dad abandoned her? It made no sense. I hated Wim and Mori's relationship, I didn't sign up to read a crappy YA romance.-Was the mum truly evil or what? Or did Mori just think of her that way because of her mental illness? What was the mum trying to actually achieve? Power? Control? Revenge? And how did Mori defeat her the first time? Did the rest of the family know about the mother or their powers? How did they even get powers in the first place? How did they learn about magic? Who taught them?-Why did Mori jump to the random conclusion that her aunts were witches? They gave her silver earrings on Christmas and were planning on taking her to get her ears pierced and from that Mori deduced they were witches. Why would she make that random connection? It was like she just made up magical rules based on nothing but her whim.-There was a made up word (karass) from another SFF book that was used over and over again. I didn't know what it meant, I had to search online to find out its proper meaning. It was only towards the end of the book when it'd already been used dozens of times that the author bothered to explain its meaning. What was the point of doing that after using it throughout the rest of the book with no explanation? It should have been done much earlier, the word 'karass' was after all the most important aspect to one of the arcs.-WTF was with the ending? Magic up until then had been subtle, unseen and ambiguous. But when Mori was facing her mum there was suddenly all sorts of flashy magic that was being used. Mori was able to make fire and trees and crazy images - she had never done that before, but suddenly she was able to conjure up loud, showy magic. It didn't fit with the rest of the book, it was better when the magic/fairies were more ambiguous. All in all, it wasn't for me. There were too many elements which frustrated me: the insufferable heroine, the awful romance with Wim, all the boring school stuff and the many reviews/mentions/references of books I'd never heard of. Among Others would probably appeal more to hardcore SFF lovers.