[4.. maybe a 3.75 stars]So if I need to describe this first book in 2 words I would say: Original and ClinicalOriginal, because let's be honest it's nothing like other fantasy novels I've read, the magic system is about capturing "ideas" into humanoid forms called "Andat" and control them to do the bidding of the castor, however these forms develop somewhat human traits and emotions as well, cue instant interesting and favorite character! The world building is also very engaging with a lot of oriental and Asian influences (can we take a second to appreciate those beautiful covers?! Kudos to Stephanie Martiniere).The plot is politics and economy-heavy which and completely action-free, which you don't see much of, if ever, in fantasy. This could be a big hit or miss for readers as the plot can be very slow-paced at times (cue audiobook to speed things up!), I won't call it slow-burn for now because that implies that they are great things to happen and I don't know that yet. However, this series seems like one that only gets better and better with each book, so look forward for 3 more reviews!Why clinical? Well you'd think the slow-nothing-is-happening pace is the reason of the low-ish rating I gave, I actually like well done slow-burn books *cough*RobinHobb*cough*. This one though was kind of a miss regarding the presentation of the characters. Don't get me wrong they are all interesting and engaging to read about, Otah and Seedless are my absolute favorite, Amat is a middle aged woman who is a BAMF that gets shit done and Maati is a precious child that you want to smack every once in a while and hug the rest of the time, Liat can go expire in a ditch for all I care but she is a very realistic 17 years old girl. Not to mention a plethora of other rich charatersSo all of the above had great distinct characterization, but I just wasn't attached to any of them. We would get description of all these horrible things that happened to them and I'm like too bad bro..So that was a bit disappointing for someone like me who likes to get destroyed and left traumatized after finishing a book..So all in all, I recommend this book for someone who is bored with all the mainstream fantasy and would like to experience something new. I am DEFINITELY going to continue with the series because ANDATS! and because I really really liked the world and I am hopefully that my attachment issues with the characters will improve as the series advances.Buddy Read with  my best-book-friend Petrik who always tries to keep me sane when I’m in full geek-out mode :’D