For all of y'all wondering if you should read this book, I give you one word: KeefeAhem, I rest my case. ;) Alright, I shall give y'all a much better review, even though it was VERY tempting just to leave it with that. ;) As always, I'm going to break this down into sections of what I found to be the most important parts of the books. CHARACTERS:Oooo *rubs hands together eagerly* This, my friends, is my favorite part of any review! Sooo I've got mixed thoughts here. Well, not for the side characters, they were wonderfully done. *chef's kiss* Which is great cuz, well, man, side characters are HARD to develop well, but Messenger gives each one an individual, unique personality. At first, some of the characters felt like they were kinda cliche, but what I loved was how, Messenger took a character type that has been done over and over again and gave a new side to them, making the characters feel 3D. Now, as for Sophie, the main character, she was well developed with quirks, flaws, desires, etc., (bonus points for having a favorite stuff animal! That was unique!!!) however, I dunno, I just didn't quite connect with her like I thought I would. I don't really know why. But that is ENTIRELY a personal feeling and was NOT due to lack of development.PLOT/PACING:Okay, so let's just go ahead and get the facts straight. Messenger ROCKS at awesome pacing and plot developing. The first 100 or so pages were a bit hard to get into, but it just picked right up after that. I read the last 350 pages in TWO DAYS. TWO DAYS, y'all. Do you know the last time I did that? It's been a while. ;) The questions, the more questions piled onto that, the fact that Sophie was having to go to the elf doctor dude about every ten pages, the questions that I STILL have, Messenger's proneness to give me questions but never answers... well, anyways, y'all all in all I just couldn't put the book down! I guess my only qualm here would be that, sometimes it felt a bit unrealistic that Sophie had a near-death experience like three times in this book and then be totally okay the next day... but hey, it's fantasy, y'all. #WeAuthorsCanDoWhatWeWant ROMANCE:Welllll, from what I hear, there's going to be a lot of it in the later parts of the series, so I figured it was best to go ahead and put this section in there. There wasn't really any romance in this book, but I included it to give one of the reasons I cut off a star. To tell you the God's honest truth, I just found Sophie blushing what felt like every five pages in this book, unrealistic and kinda annoying I mean, y'all, she is ONLY twelve in this book, and well, let's just say I haven't even blushed that much IN MY LIFE, much less when I was twelve. THE MAGIC/FANTASY PART:Ooooo, okay, so THIS would be my favorite part of the book. The creativity and uniqueness Messenger put into this story was AMAZING!!! I was mind-blown about every part in this page where it showed the extensive worldbuilding Messenger created and in all honesty, you gotta love it when all you wanna do is go live in that world. Seriously, y'all I wish I could ATTEND Foxfire. Who's with me? And just how she did all the magic systems and took common things like our thoughts on elves and just made something  magical, that drew me into the story and world with every page it was all FANTABULOUS!!!! Seriously, Messenger gets ALL the brownie points for that one. ;) WRITING PROSE:I just have mixed feelings, y'all. I kinda liked the simplistic prose, but at the same time, thought it could've used a little more. (???) Maybe it was the constant "telling" me how Sophie felt than "showing" it to the readers, which really prevented me from connecting with Sophie as I had wanted. Idk, but, on the other hand, it most definitely didn't detract from how awesome the story unfolded!!!!Will I Read the Sequel?Uh... y'all, it's agony NOT to be reading the sequel right now, so you better believe I will!!!! CONCLUSION:If y'all made it through that, I commend thee. *gives y'all lotsa chocolate* XD So to wrap it up, I do HIGHLY recommend this novel to all of those out there who enjoy a creative, MG fantasy that will have you begging to read the next page and will stay in your thoughts many (and I do mean MANY) days after you make it to the end. (Just have the sequel handy... y'all are gonna want it. XD)