3.2/5 | It's like The School for Good and Evil, but better.Actually, it's The School for Good and Evil with some Harry Potter thrown in along with a bit of Narnia and sprinkled with elements of Percy Jackson. And you have it. But, for real, it reminded me so much of TSfGaE; it was everything good about that series and more.It's also worth mentioning how drop dead gorgeous every single cover in this series is. It's actually shocking.P L O TI was afraid at the beginning because the pacing was shit. It was absolutely rubbish. This quote pretty much sums it up:"You look confused," he observed."Well, it's like you're saying, 'Hey, Sophie, take everything you've ever learned about anything and throw it away.'""Actually, that is what I'm saying."Literally that. We plunged headfirst into a high fantasy magic land. Sophie was a human and we got basically nothing about the first eleven years of her existence, her human life. Barely anything was pre-established, it was so much in such a short span of time and everything was so in your face. It was very info-dumpy, too. I didn't like the beginning at all. The only thing I cared for was the The Lightning Thief nostalgia because it was similar in that it was a middle-grade series that all started one faithful day during a museum field trip.It was way too much. But on a brighter note, it was so rushed it seemed almost immature and, while that was annoying, it was also kind of charming in a weird way? Things seemed a lot less formal than what I'm used to reading in fantasy which was refreshing, I guess. Also, I doubt this was intentional but it definitely helped me to relate to how overwhelming Sophie found everything at the start. Information and life-changing developments were dropped like BANG BANG BANG!The world building was also rushed. It also grew tiresome how constantly I was reminded of how inferior earth was to the elf world. Just about every description in the fantasy realm alluded to being superior to earth in absolutely every respect. I suppose it was meant to represent an ideal world but with magic and a way to poke fun at issues such as climate change and crime and stuff. That's nice and all but can't you describe elf land (I can't remember if it was given a general name?) without mercilessly dragging earth through the mud? (I'm sorry; I'm an earth lover and I've been triggered)Enough of my whining. The pacing significantly improved from around 70 pages onward. As soon as the school setting was introduced and things were, let's say, settled, the story flowed seamlessly in a way that was both natural and gripping. The classes were super fun, the character antics and events as well, and all the while there was this air of mystery lingering that kept me interested and had me coming up with many theories. It felt like a genuine school experience with an investigating lead and a kind of distant larger threat that said lead is too young to know that much about. In that, it reminded me a lot of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.The magic system was so cool! Telepaths, Empaths, Vanishers, Conjurers, Impacters, etc. I'm certainly excited to learn more about these abilities and what they can branch out to. I'm particularly curious about Empaths.C H A R A C T E R SOkay, at first I thought our protagonist Sophie Foster would be a Mary Sue. She was a senior in high school at the age of twelve, she had photographic memory, she was extraordinarily intelligent, magical and special. Everything seemed to come so easily for her, her successes being ridiculously convenient, but things changed once she hit Foxfire. I like that she was set up to be this insanely powerful, talented and seemingly perfect girl overflowing with potential only to have her actually struggle with several classes at school. It sounds horrible but I really enjoyed seeing her mess up! Learning how she worked through her failures was what really made her endearing to me. She was so determined and conscientious in school despite everything else that went on in her whirlwind life. Sophie just could not catch a bloody break which makes me worry on her behalf in the next, what, five books? I don't even know how many installments this series has. Point is, she really grew on me by the end regardless of the fact that I'm still grimacing at her name thanks to a certain bitch from The School for Good and Evil series.Dex was great. He was probably the first character to show a personality in the entire book. He was always so excited about everything, he was super blunt and he was just too cute. Dex was a great friend to Sophie, too, and, while he was irrational at times, I sympathise with his loathing of 'Wonderboys'. It's a totally realistic reaction and I appreciate him for being so real.Keefe stole the show even if he was pretty brief. His appearances were like candy because I just ate him up. He was hilarious and never - and I mean NEVER - failed to make me smile - and that's not just because his name is so weird it's funny.Fitz was... fine. I can't say much about a character that was often present but had no presence. The stereotypical nice guy heartthrob that's just kind of there for people - characters and readers alike - to crush on. Biana, while ever so slightly more interesting than her bro Fitz, was also very brief. I think she has more potential, though.Whatever; it's only the first book. I'm guessing this will be a gradual thing. I got a decent understanding of most characters but never got too much. That's good because I know them but I don't know too much for them to become dry later on. (Yes, I said later on. I'm definitely continuing this series.)Especially considering this is a middle-grade series, I could really appreciate there being so many parental figures that were involved in the younger mains' lives. Alden, Elwin, Grady, Edaline, Tiergen - they were all really present and made to be unique and interesting. It's a common issue I have when authors neglect adults in their cast, depicting them as stale, worrisome and or authoritative people who think they know what's up but really don't, instead focusing all their efforts into the younger characters in order to achieve optimal quirkiness with them alone. Edaline and Grady, specifically, hooked me.R E L A T I O N S H I P SSophie's relationship with Grady and Edaline was so sad and precious. She's helped them attempt to move on and live their lives normally and happily. In return, they act as such good parents to her even if they do face obvious indecision. They're so healthy for each other.Lil' twelve-year-old Sophie was in awe of how handsome fifteen-year-old Fitz was and it was kind of adorable. I should have counted how many times she got lost in his teal eyes. I kind of wish there was more to their relationship established early on. It's a childish crush on Sophie's part whilst Fitz just extends seemingly superficial kindness to her as he does with everyone else except that one mean girl at school that isn't his sister.To end on a great note: The Sophie-Keefe friendship is where it's at! It worked SO well! He'd always be teasing her and is so straightforward with her, encouraging her in his own super endearingly snarky way:"Look, I'm not good at the serious, supportive thing-but trust me, you're going to be fine.""How do you know?"He grinned. "I have a feeling you can do pretty much anything you put your mind to. So stop doubting yourself and go prove me right. You know, so I can brag about it."She couldn't help smiling."... ...A solid start. I want to know what happens next and I hear the books only get better from here!