3.5 stars, personally. This was a really interesting concept! I've been hearing about these books for a while and thought I would try at least the first book out once the last book releases as I was expecting cliffhangers galore, but you see how well that worked out. 😉 I really liked Sophie and how the Choice One trop played into this plot. I'm honestly shocked to say that because I had low hopes, but I really did like her. (I also wanted to give her a hug many times, the poor thing. A couple parts even bought tears to my emotionally-drained eyes.) She handled everything that was thrown at her very well and I honestly think the Council was too much of a stick-in-the-mud because I understood her reasoning every time. I really wanted answers about Sophie's past/beginnings, but the book ended with much more information than I was expecting. Not a lot, but more than I was hoping. I do think this series is going to drag out answers, which makes me less than excited to continue on, but I do plan to continue it, regardless. I know there's a big debate in this fandom about Fitz and Keefe. I don't have an opinion yet, personally. I'll keep y'all updated when I do. 😉 I would consider this to be upper Middle-Grade as there is a lot about crushes and boys and such. Overall? You know, it wasn't bad. I see why so many love it, though I'm concerned about this series being ten books as I'm not sure how much can happen (I feel like those who have read all the books out are laughing at me saying that) but I'll try out a couple more to see. Main ContentChildren (including our main character) are drugged, kidnapped, threatened with harm and death, tased, held hostage, & nearly suffocated (by adults, up to semi-detailed); An Allergic reaction, Pain, Injuries, Passing out, & Throwing up (up to semi-detailed); Almost being hit by a car (up to semi-detailed).No cussing, minor Middle-Grade language such as 'stupid', 'wimp', 'dumb', 'idiots', 'pain-in-the-butt'/'kick butt', are used somewhat frequently; Eye rolling & Sarcasm; A few mentions of curses (that are just said and not actually written out); Sophie lies & breaks a promise; Sophie is called a freak by her school mates and calls herself a freak as well; Dealing with a mean girl at school & her comments (and other snide/prejudice comments); Accidentally stealing from an ATM. When Sophie finds out that the parents that raised her aren't her biological parents, she is crushed but thinks that it doesn't change anything even though she's never belong with them (*Spoiler*  When she has to live permanently in the elf world, the elves in charge of her plan to make it look like she died (to them), but she can't put them through that so she asks for their memories of her to be erased, which involves her doing sleeping gas in the room they are in and she's distraught doing that as she loves them ); She has a few other moments of hurt based on what happened with her parents; Sophie listens to a playlist titled "angry" with screaming when upset. Death isn't common in the elf world, but there have been freak accidents that caused deaths (some who have not experienced the loss of a loved one across as flippant and Sophie doesn't like their attitude); Mentions of grief & the families missing their loved one greatly (including for parents & a couple for their daughter); Mentions of fires, deaths, people being displaced because of them, and a possible arsonist; Mentions of wars & humans betraying the elves; A few mentions of a couple being called a "bad match" (which is an insult and means that the couple was ruled to be genetically incompatible and that usually means their kids will be inferior); Mentions of cheating ( Sophie reads a teacher's mind to get the answers to a test, but feels very guilty and confesses ); Mentions of nightmares (including of a family being trapped in a fire, barely-above-not-detailed); A few mentions of some elves' minds being shattered for the elf council to be able to get secrets out of them; A couple mentions of suicides (one in regards to someone's social life and another in a plan to kidnap a kid); A couple mentions of wine (drank by adults). Mentions of terrible smells & dead animals (barely-above-not-detailed); Mentions of animal dung and pee being used for wounds; A couple mentions of farts; A couple mentions of burps; A mention of an alien.Noticing cute guys (Sophie gets flustered, blushes, & her heart flutters); Some nerdy/weird guys drool over Sophie (mainly because girls don't interact with them); Keefe kind of jokes about a teacher having a crush on him (Sophie is 90 percent sure he's joking); A young man shares that he has three girlfriends (his mother is horrified and Keefe says it's awesome and that he's his hero; Many mentions of boys, boyfriends, crushes, who likes who, etc.Someone tells Sophie that he's not sure if she has biological parents in the conventional sense, he says "Your human parents had trouble getting pregnant, so they saw a fertility doctor. I believe that doctor was a member of [a group]--posing as a human--and that he implanted your mother with your embryo to keep us from knowing about [you]".Magic wise, it's said that what elves can do is not magic, Fits explains that "magic is a stupid idea humans came up with to try to explain things they couldn't understand"; There are special abilities like Telepath, Telekinesis, Inflicting (make someone feel certain things), & Mesmer (who can put someone in a trance) to name a few; By a certain age, the children elves are expected to "manifest" their special ability; There are Goblins, orges, imps, banshees, dinosaurs/tyrannosaurus, saber-tooth tigers, mammoths, and other hybrid odd animals (but no mentions of evolution) (all of the animals are trained to be vegetarian); A mention of someone being like a Titan god.