Book of Night is a huge disappointment. The magic system is confusing and nonsensical, the characters are almost aggressively uninteresting, and the plot is a dragging, tedious mess.The writing lost all of the biting wit, fierce emotion, and brilliant sharpness that made me adore The Cruel Prince. I don’t understand how Holly Black can create a whole cast of compelling, vicious, magnetic characters in the Folk of the Air trilogy and then write Book of Night, which has exactly zero interesting characters. The side characters all blend together. Charlie herself is so bland it hurts. Whenever Charlie does something that doesn’t make any sense, the excuse is that her most prominent character trait is being addicted to bad decisions (Never met a bad decision she wasn’t willing to double down on… Charlie Hall, drawn to trouble like an ant to a glue trap). The motivations of all the characters are either unclear or simply told to us. There’s no warmth to them, nothing I can get attached to. The shadow magic in this book is hardly explained. Shadows can be cosmetically shaped, but they can also trigger emotions and give you powers? And somehow they’re linked to a person’s subconscious? There are a few attempts to add rules and structure to the magic system, but that is all tossed away whenever the plot needs shadows to do something different. The world is monotone and drab. I can’t even claim it had potential because it was so underdeveloped. I really hate to say this, but Book of Night felt like the first draft of a first outline. There were that many plot holes.I’m tired of lackluster murder mystery plots in adult debuts from YA authors. It’s so specific, but I keep seeing this. Over and over again. It’s so sad to me when YA authors write adult fiction and lose their spark. “Adult” does not mean boring or slow or pretentious or edgy or two-dimensional. Adult fiction can be just as vibrant as some of the stunning YA novels these authors have written. I’m proud of them for stepping out of their comfort zones and trying something new, but this doesn’t mean they have to lose what made them stand out in the first place.1 star