I was nervous about reading this at first because 90% of the people in my sphere have given it crap reviews so far, but I rather enjoyed it. The biggest communal complaint is that it was, "boring."Well, if you're going into this expecting it to be like,  The Cruel Prince,  then, yeah, you might be disappointed. It's no  Folk of Air. But is that really a fair comparison? That's like if you're disappointed that 10 million dollars isn't 50 million dollars. It's still   10 million dollars.  Charlie is a con artist, and has been, ever since she was a small child. She lives with her sister Posey, who reads tarot cards, and her boyfriend, Vince (who's past is rather mysterious). The three live in a world where shadows can be separate magical entities from your body, to do your bidding. They.. drink blood? (Idk). People start approaching Charlie about finding this book,  The Book of Night,  which is said to have the secret to releasing shadows from their owners bodies, turning them human. Charlie doesn't want to get involved, as the book involves Lionel Salt, a sadistic old billionaire who killed Charlie's stepfather. But alas, she does, and along the way starts to unravel her boyfriends mysterious past. I liked this, it was clever. Charlie is a top-teir heroine, and the magic world was cool. The love interest was smokin' hot. Holly Black is also a phenomenal writer, I just like reading her narration in general. And the con artist stuff, the flashbacks, also cool. 'Specially Alanzo. No you won't believe me, but I myself have pulled some Alanzo sh8t before so it was fun to read about. Like I said though, it's no  Cruel Prince.  My main complaints are that, 1. I guessed the ending. 2. The magic world was interesting but CONFUSING and as a world that really only has like one magical thing and shouldn't be that complicated, I felt like it took me a lot longer to grasp than it should have. 3. I NEEDED MORE ROMANCE, maybe I have a problem (I high key can't make it through 80% of books if they don't have sufficient amounts of romance in them) but I felt like I could've used a little bit more umph in that department.Also... is this a standalone or the first in a series? The ending felt very unsatisfying to me, so.. maybe it's a series?Overall though, I enjoyed Holly Black's adult fiction debut, and I think everyone's giving it a bit of a hard time. Give it a chance and don't let the negative reviews deter you ❤️