"She was a monster, a bride of the darkness, and she rose to face her destiny as though it were the blood red sunrise of a new day."Ok ok I finally have time to write a review. I'd like to start off with a big loud pterodactyl screech that might convey how unique and amazing this book was. I am thoroughly impressed. The entire plot was so well thought out and the characters were beautifully written (even if some of them were brutal as hell... yeah I'm looking at you Xifeng). Basically, I loved it.Essentially this story is an Asian inspired twist on the Evil Queen from Snow White. It also seemed to incorporate lots of Asian mythology as well. I adoredddd this aspect because I'm not exposed to Asian culture very often in YA, so it truly was a breath of fresh air. There's also an antiheroine in the story and you have no idea how much I adore antiheroines like YES PLEASE GIVE THEM TO ME. I can not and will not get over the entire concept of this book. For the first half I would say I thought this book was about a 4 star read. But then something extremely dark and twisted happens and from then I was internally screaming until I finished the book. Now let me emphasize this again... this book gets REAL dark... There are certain violent scenes that are described that were hard to stomach... but they were done SO WELLLLL! I'M STILL INTERNALLY SCREAMING. AHHHHHH THIS CONCEPT.This story also breaks so many stereotypes and typical YA tropes... FABULOUS in that regardNext, the characters. Now, uh, as I mentioned before I adore antiheroines and LET ME TELL YOU... YOU DON'T THINK THIS PERSON WILL BE AN ANTIHERO UNTIL THIS THING HAPPENS AND AFTER THAT OH MY *cackles* sorry... was that too much? I just really love antiheroes don't @ me... Anyway... I enjoyed reading about all of the characters except for Wei... honestly I hated him the entire time oml...I will say the romance was a low point for me and what made me seriously consider whether this was a 5 star or a 4.5 because the romance in this book annoyed me to no end. However, I do understand why it was there and I respect it... That respect is as far as I will go. I feel like I already emphasized this but THE SECOND HALF OF THIS BOOK. The second half totally turns into a pre Snow White story and the ending HOLY SHIT I NEED THE SEQUEL. Now, I will say this is NOT a Snow White retelling... it's more of a PRE Snow White retelling and it seems as if the sequel may be more of a Snow White retelling. Don't go into this expecting Snow White... there were just so many hints and clues that point toward that story and it made me so giddy. And that second half man... it felt like a different book. When this book is released and if you aren't feeling the first part... I BEG YOU TO STICK WITH IT.This story had politics, demons, murder, gods, kingdoms, and a splendid world full of magic and darkness. I enjoyed it immensely. For sure pick this one up come October so I can have someone to freak out with! (: