Non-spoiler book review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eAJd2...Written review:I went into this book hoping for the origin story of a villain and I was not disappointed in the least. Forest of a Thousand Lanterns follows the story of Xifeng. A young woman who is told she is destined for power and leadership... the be the empress of the kingdom. According to the cards her abusive witch aunt reads, the journey is not going to be easy and will test her. Xifeng leaves her aunt behind with her childhood sweetheart and travel to the capital city for the opportunity to go to court with only one goal in mind: become the empress. Between the current empress, the concubines, and even the gossiping eunuchs, Xifeng navigates and schemes her way, manipulating nearly everyone in her favor to hook the current emperor into hopefully making her his next empress.I loved this book. I was super into it from the start. It has a quiet beginning, but once Xifeng makes her way to court, I was enthralled. All the relationships were so intricately schemed I was so interested in the dynamics Xifeng had with everyone, both the men and the women in this book.First, I gotta talk about the writing and how immersive it was. Julie Dao can write, holy moly. I'm not the biggest fan of flowery prose but it was so atmospheric and fit with the tone of the story she sat up here that it was really inspiring to listen to. I say listen, because I did get the audiobook for this one and I loved how this story was told me. I can't wait to read more of Julie's books because I'm a lot of percent sure I'm going to enjoy anything she writes. The book primarily takes place in a court setting at the palace and it was exactly what I needed to read at the time because I was eating all this court life up. The political intrigue and alliances aspect did not disappoint me at all. It was great. I loved learning about everything, especially the culture. Now, I have seen a lot of mixed reviews on this book and it seem a lot of them come down with Xifeng's character. I loved her character. This is a villain origin story so... she does some pretty pretty awful things. But like, I was both shocked and proud of her when she did these things. I was rooting for her. I wanted to see her become empress. I enjoyed the way the malicious schemed and manipulated the characters around her to get her goal. It's wildy different than how a hero would get there. Speaking of her manipulations. Oh man, was I on board for how she completely worked all the men in this book. Her childhood love she schemed against and I was thrilled. She manipulated the crown prince by planting seeds of doubt. And the way she worked the emperor was the best. I was living for these scenes, they were my favorite part of the book. *insert Louise Belcher laughing in front of flames gif* Now the only reason I rated this a four instead of a five came down to the evil creature that lived inside of her that Xifeng often references. She relies on this "creature" a little too much in my opinion for the reasoning behind she does certain things. I wish there was more of a separation there. I wanted Xifeng to be a little more self-reliant on her villainous tendencies. I would have liked to see her do some of these things without saying the creature made her do it. But really, that was the only thing I didn't like about the book. I'm really excited for the next book in the series and I just... I harbor ill-will toward anyone who will go up against Xifeng since I am #TeamXifeng alllllll the way.