Forest of a Thousand Lanterns is a dark and gruesome, !!!East Asian!!! fantasy about Xifeng, a beautiful peasant girl who has always been told that she is destined for greatness. Xifeng is raised by her abusive aunt/Guma who longs to fulfill Xifeng's destiny, the cards have predicted. They show Xifeng's future full of power and as Empress, but with great power comes great sacrifice and difficult obstacles to pass. Sick of her aunt's abuse, Xifeng ceases the opportunity to run away with her lover, Wei, and fulfill this fucking destiny, yo!!!The pacing of this book is extremely slow and takes its time in building up to the good stuff. Slow pacing is a hit and miss for me. I'll either love it or quickly go bored with it. In this case, I did have a hard time enjoying this book, but thankfully that lasted for only about 50ish pages. The book started off well but then I got bored and I was going to dnf. But I decided not to and swear to god, the best decision my pathetic ass ever made. I think the pacing has a lot to do with what's going on in the story as well. As long as you're enjoying what you're reading, you'll enjoy the book. The world building is so freaking GORGEOUS, y'all I was in awe!!!! Everything is described so beautifully. You know that feeling when your mom makes some real good looking food and doesn't let you eat it so all you can do is take in every detail and your mouth is watering?? That was actually me. World building is hands down the best thing about this book!!Xifeng is such an amazingly written character. I read some reviews about how Xifeng is supposed to be an anti-hero. You sympathize with her and like her at some point and sometimes things she does make you hate her. This girl knows she's drop dead gorgeous and she knows that using that beauty the right way is going to get her where she wants. (The whole woman and their beauty message also showed some feminism in the book, which was great!!) She hates on other women and kills one to have the spotlight on her. She's fucking crazy I know and girl hate is annoying, but it's all part of her ugly side. We aren't supposed to like Xifeng sometimes. Also not to mention she eats the hearts of the dead to get stronger, so that's great!! It's very gory, dark and bloody and you know I'm a sucker for that stuff. Overall, a very refreshing and beautiful book about how far people are willing to go to fulfill their destinies, v v great sacrifices, selfishness and all the ugly things that go through a woman's mind. Definitely recommend.❌❌❌❌❌❌this cover is ugly af but it's the inside that should be beautiful and if it's not then you'll find me in a hole i personally dug for myself back in 1669.also br with Mat the blue eyed sexy Greek god with a six pack but is broke and only has muscles and his hotness to keep himself happy.