“I was a born a woman into this world,” she said, echoing the concubine’s words. “And I will play the game, but I won’t lose.” I’m not mad, I’m just… a little disappointed. okay okay okay actually let me level here: I LOVE Xifeng. love her so much Julie C. Dao knew what she was DOING with that character. “But in weakness, you find your strength. You leave pieces of yourself in everyone you love. Is that not the greatest power, to endure in that way?”“I don’t know,” Xifeng said in a low voice. “I may never know.”Xifeng has this wonderful selfishness to her that I think authors often shy away from. Moral greyness is always fantastic, but I love how completely unlikable Xifeng is at times here; she does not have anything but selfish intent, and the narrative does not pretend otherwise. I don’t know how it works, but I am incredibly impressed by the fact that it does.Unfortunately I felt this just lacked a little uhhhhh... plot. The first 40% is deadass one of the worst beginnings to a book that is trying to be this dark and twisted; it is boring, lacks plot, lacks any sort of intrigue, and could be split by half in length with no change to the overall plot and honestly, I wish it were split into a third of its current length. Even when we get to the palace, the book really lacks plot, honestly - it simply makes up for it all with Xifeng’s wonderful moral ambiguity.I will also admit I did not like Guma’s characterization at all. She’s an abusive parent figure to Xifeng, both physically and mentally, and it does that whole arc where it’s revealed that there were extenuating circumstances. However, I found these reasons really flimsy… or maybe I was just annoyed at the implication that Xifeng’s darkness is caused by the fact that she won’t forgive her abusive parental figure. That's... something that pops up a lot in literature, and it consistently bothers me. I will say that this complaints felt like slightly less of a problem while I was reading the book - the narrative feels, in some ways, far more nuanced than simple abusive-mom-forgiven and so I think I usually would have been waaaaaaay more mad. I will also say I was really not invested in the romance. It’s supposed to make you sad because it’s lowkey tragic but it’s just so deeply unromantic on every level? I didn’t like Wei very much and I can’t tell if you’re supposed to – he’s incredibly possessive in the first half and I was not a fan. The girl hate plotline admittedly does feel a bit subversive because Xifeng learns from Lady Sun, but it doesn’t work because Lady Sun is so flat-villain in characterization - although yes, she is a damn cool villain. You can probably tell I was not invested in or interested in any character relationships except one, Xifeng’s with the Empress. And I really wish that relationship got more pagetime. What we do get is great, but it lacks a lot of depth. Maybe I just love Xifeng too much because she’s the power hungry bitch Lady Macbeth & Evil Queen amalgamation of my heart. I'm not sure if I'll be reading the sequel to this, but I'll pick up other works by Julie C. Dao. I have a feeling she's going to pull a Leigh Bardugo on us all and write my favorite book of all time in three years.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube