This review can now be found on Rosaline's Rolls & Scrolls.Previously on Rosaline's Rant Reviews:“I like my fantasy books dangerous and gritty. With strong, capable, and witty characters who capture my heart, shred it to pieces, and put it back together again. I want to see character growth, I want to see cunning, I want to see power play. And most of all I want fantasy!” Yes, OMG, yes!  This is what I have been waiting for! Destiny, power play, and dirty politics. Characters who are not afraid to get their hands dirty. And MCs who embrace power and are concerned with their own self interest. Not once did the MC in this book mope around complaining about her life or whine about “doing the right thing” and using it as an excuse for her inability to do shit! She took her life in  her own hands. She went after what she thought she deserved, and she did not apologize for it. Not for wanting more and not for taking it.A queen like her makes sense, a queen who gets her power handed to her sounds like dumb luck. Guess which one I want to read about?Forest of a Thousand Lanterns is Julie C. Dao’s debut novel, and girl did she do it right!Everything in this book was just right. Nothing was overdone and nothing was… underdone. No character was without a purpose and no line of dialogue forced. Julie C. Dao wrote a gripping novel about love, destiny, and betrayal. The story portraits characters with grey morality and brings forth the raging debate of nature vs. nurture.  The author has done a wonderful job of bringing Xifeng’s character to life and making her feel palpable to the reader.Ever since reading Marie Lu’s The Young Elites and Marissa Meyer’s Heartless I have been ravenous to read more about anti-heroine type MCs, even though the MC in Heartless is not really an anti-heroine, just a product of circumstances. Regardless, I have found Forest of a Thousand Lanterns to be the perfect answer to my prayers. Whereas Heartless and The Young Elites' MCs ‘ angers were shared by me the entire book and I was screaming for them to behead all their enemies and whoever has done them wrong, with Xifeng I felt no small amount of conflict. As I was begging for her in my head to stop and think, I was nodding and rooting for her to succeed as she whispered her thoughts into my ear. You may not completely approve of her, but you cannot deny you get her desires. Xifeng’s character speaks to a very dark and very real part of humanity.  She is not tortured, and life and circumstances have not forced her hand. Xifeng is just extremely ambitious... and extremely cunning. She does not stop at anything to get what she wants and what she wants is everything. And. I. Am. Here. For. It!I bought this book amidst all the hype and after taking one look at my favorite reviewer’s high rating. So going into it, I didn’t really know what it was about. It took me about 60% of the book to realize what story this book was retelling. That’s how original this book was. More often than not retellings end up being the same story with different character names and a slightly different setting, but that was not the case with Forest of a Thousand Lanterns. Nothing in this book was copied, and the story took only inspiration from the original tale and nothing more, which was a sweet surprise.I did not think I would love this book as much as I did. When I first picked it up I thought it was another overly hyped YA retelling that would not be absolutely horrible at best and I would end up being in the pool of unpopular opinions yet again. However, this book and its author surprised me with an amazing tale that took me to another land and another time and absolutely exceeded my expectations. In conclusion my dears: How long has it been since you read a book where the MC is not constantly whining about her life, herself, the people around who are trying to save her (because she just somehow always needs to be saved), and the “greatness" that she is destined for and absolutely doesn’t want because boring stupid existence was enough, thank you very much? And how long since you did not have to go through the atrocious love affairs with Mr. Wallpaper and Mr. Shitworm, and in extreme cases and too often, both at the same time?If your answer to these questions is “too long", then you should definitely give this book a try.And on top of lacking all that nonsense, this book includes awesome characters, court politics, backstabbing, good world building, right amount of fantasy, and bloOoOod.Definitely recommend!BLOG | GOODREADS | INSTAGRAM| TWITTER