My legs are so toned from climbing the stairs back to a higher moral ground after reading this novel, because phew... these morally empty heist stories are really raising some uncomfortable questions about my sense of morality.**The Lies of Locke Lamora, not-so-delicately traces the path back to the past of Locke Lamora, beginning with The Thiefmaker who—after waking up to the realization that the Lamora orphan could be underestimated only at great peril to one’s health—sells him to Chains, the faking Eyeless Priest. Chains takes Locke under his criminal wing in what could only be considered a spectacular act of deathbed vengeance, and for years, he represses Locke’s unrelenting capacity for conniving and guides him into cultivating a keenly honed ability to bullshit, wide-eyed and plausibly and at the drop of a hat. The novel then travels back to the present day where Locke and his band of bonkers and bitingly likeable thieves are in the midst of their latest, and biggest, con of the nobility of the land of Camorr.With each successful con, however, fate’s bowstring seems to be drawing taut and Locke (also the reader) is waiting for the moment when all hell breaks loose. For many pages, hell seems content to stay bound…. until Camorr’s long, dark time tracks Locke down. The newly-arrived Gray King is assassinating gang leaders and the secret police of Camorr's legendary Spider is hunting down Locke. The city of Camorr has upended the board, and Locke Lamora is one of the scattered pieces. One, it seems, can only get so far on their aptitude to bullshit.“Someday, Locke Lamora,” he said, “someday, you’re going to fuck up so magnificently, so ambitiously, so overwhelmingly that the sky will light up and the moons will spin and the gods themselves will shit comets with glee. And I just hope I’m still around to see it.”“Oh please,” said Locke. “It’ll never happen.”Having recently read (and enjoyed the heck out of) Six of Crows, The Lies of Locke Lamora strikes me as the grown-up version of the former novel, with a darker mad cap humor fun, a bigger torrent of polysyllabic profanity, though (to my eternal dismay) less women. And while Kaz Brekker comes off as a grizzled, hard-bitten, 40-year-old black-and-white film noir anti-hero crammed into the body of a teenager, Locke Lamora is the chill dude-bro who actually knows how to have fun.There's a great deal to enjoy in The Lies of Locke Lamora. The world of Camorr is solidly-crafted and bursting with detail and the vivid, oftentimes violent, action unfolds slowly, propelled by political machinations and anchored in complex character development. It's heavy stuff, full of blood and murder and a terrible clear-eyed certainty that Locke’s reckoning had finally come, but it's leavened by the snarking banter between the leads. (Seriously, this book is hilarious.)The Lies of Locke Lamora also has magic in bounds and mysteries by the minute and the best part is that just when you think you've seen the explosion and let your guard down a little, another one happens. There were moments of victory where I whooped with joy, and there were moments of absolute terror, where everything seems as though it will fall apart. And I think this book works because Locke is such an interesting character, and the author constantly keeps you off guard as to his truths and intent.I also loved how the author never takes the easy way out. He puts many obstacles both physical and emotional in the characters’ path, tortures the hell out of them and makes them better characters for it. Locke is one brilliant son of a bitch—he seems unthreatening and eccentric, until one understood what deep power lay behind his frail facade. However, he’s not beyond going under, pulled along by currents he can’t control and does not understand. The world did not always bend to Locke Lamora, it did not always fit into his order of things, and that felt a lot more realistic.All in all, I really enjoyed this novel. I never know where Lynch was going to take us, in this world of thieves and blood and revenge, but I am more than happy to continue along the journey with him.