4.5 stars, and it may be possible I'm just being picky.Unlike "The Woman Who Rides Like a Man," Lioness Rampant certainly doesn't feel like the first half of a story (and while it shouldn't - it is the final book in this particular series). It really is quite well done. I really enjoyed a lot of it.Jonathan as King and friend is so much better than Jonathan as love interest. He makes a good King, in general. I very much appreciate how focused his is on getting to know his people, and understanding them. And he wants to be just rather than just going easy on people. That is a nice distinction. I like where he and Alanna end up in this book.Liam, le sigh. I feel like I liked Liam better on my first read-through of this. I understand Liam; I really like the lesson Alanna learns about why they were doomed from the start (both reasons). But, he's just so extreme. I have an issue with characters who are that unwilling to bend in any way, or really even acknowledge that they're wrong (which Alanna is at least better at, though like most people she doesn't like it). I'm not saying he's not noble, and courageous, etc. But I don't think I like his personality much in this one.Gary and Raoul! Gary loves being Prime Minister and running a government! Of course he does. And I always enjoy Raoul. I also like Lord Gareth the elder's appearance in this, and Alanna's reaction to him. Also Myles! The moment where George is all, "We have to watch out when Myles is riled." I continue to adore Myles.I had actually forgotten a lot of the plot of the second half of this book. I remembered Alanna getting the jewel. I remembered Liam. I semi-remembered Buri and Thayet. I remembered Jonathan using the jewel. I remembered little else. Everything really does come together all at once, doesn't it? I do enjoy how Alanna defeats Roger, in the end. I enjoyed everyone just living at Myles'. That was pretty great. I wish we'd gotten to see more of Buri (though I know she shows up in later books). My Lord Provost was pretty entertaining. I enjoy how proud the city is of him.George. I liked George in this. I think the resolution felt to neat to me, the first time I read this. But (and maybe it's because I've now read the later series'), I really enjoyed the romantic resolution this time around. Rather than feel too easy, it felt like both he and Alanna choosing the life they wanted, and both figuring out what they want? I still don't think it's a perfect journey (books two and three leave much to be desired in that regard), but on this readthrough I at least think it ends up in the right place. And this book does it well. So that's nice. Also, George as spy!master is somewhat perfect (particularly if we ignore Aly). (Anyone remember if it's ever textually confirmed that that was Myles's old job? I feel like it might be.) Either way, I think George/Alanna has been bumped to the top of my list for "Best Tamora Pierce romance" (not that there is a lot of competition).My one sort-of-fly in the ointment? Thom. I accept that the story essentially had to go the way it did for plot reasons. But I also feel like there isn't enough justification for some of it in-text? Like, Thom's arrogance, sure. That's well set-up. But enough that goading would cause him to resurrect the man who tried to kill his twin sister? The only person he cares about at all? And given that he brings Roger back from the dead, I feel like everyone's reactions to him are disproportionate. Bringing someone back from the dead is bad enough. Bringing back someone who has attempted to kill the entire royal family? I mean... okay. I just, feel like at the very least Alanna needed to yell at him for it. I'm not saying she needed to resent him for ever, or even be mad at him for a long time. But surely her outlining the reasons what he did was stupid, and trying to figure out if he knew what he was doing... I think I just needed more context/grounding for the whole thing. Because as it is, Thom felt more like a plot device than a character in the later books of this series. It's very much, "Well, a pretty girl dared me to. So I essentially did something to destabilize the kingdom." Which, I'm not sure I buy..Oh, I remembered another small issue I had. Alex. Why so underdeveloped? Is his whole thing (like Thom) to prove that he's the best swordsman ever? If so, why ally him so completely with Roger? Sort of do not get it. He just sort of feels like he's there...But yeah, mostly I like it. (A little nervous to reread Daine now though, just because they were always my favourites.)