[first read: 6 January 2008]Alanna gathers her own band of merry wo/men as she continues her adventures outside of Tortall. Her adventuring takes her through war-torn Sarain, to the Roof of the World where she reclaims the Dominion Jewel for Tortall. I will say that I think this is the most fulfilling of the Alanna series, for me. I enjoyed reading about Alanna's adventures and growth into a warrior and a woman confident in her abilities and desires! The myths and legends of Tortall and its world are fascinating!As many of you have stated, I was not impressed with the handling of the Thom plot-line. Would Alanna truly shrug away the resurrection of Roger? The realization that Thom was ill? The over-enunciation of her worries over Jonathan, too, felt a bit heavy-handed. (I will admit that I found a certain joy in seeing Alanna shrug off Roger's slights and Thom's meddling, as well as the explanation as to why she was able to do so. It did not break her characterization as tempestuous, merely expanded her horizons to include all she had accomplished. LOVE IT.)I also wanted more George: I suppose his reasoning for pulling away after Alanna's return to Corus was because he believed she wanted to get back with Jonathan, but it wasn't very well captured?? Other than his initial greeting and his final proposal, he's very reserved and it made me frustrated. I like that George has power and strength, but he never utilizes that power to try and force Alanna into doing anything she doesn't want to do. Both Jonathan and Liam do, to a certain extent, try to impose their wills on her and it rankles to see it go directly unchecked. OH AND AS AN ASIDE: Alanna, please stfu about "dying alone". You're, what, 20 at best? You've just ended things with your Shang lover that you picked up at an Inn without so much as a by-your-leave; you happily send your first lover off to be married to his new hot Princess; and you haven't had a good heart-to-heart with your middle lover in a year. YOU ARE IN NO DANGER OF DYING ALONE: YOU ARE AN ATTRACTIVE, BADASS LADY WHO HAS HAD LOTS OF LUCK FINDING PARTNERS PLEASE STOP. Also FAITHFUL.I finished this book feeling content with the story and what had happened in it (I mean, from an authorial-what-is-art kind of way; not in a "I'm so glad so many people DIED" kind of way). I liked the heroic aspects, and how many references there are to the spread of stories and songs. How legends aren't created by any one person, but rather all the other people. I liked that Alanna sought her destiny instead of allowing it to find her.