You guys! Go read this book! It was so good. Like, sooooo good and I just finished reading it like ten minutes ago and I'm dying right now. And AAAAAAAHHHHHH, I literally can't even! Seriously though. UUUGGHHHH!!!But anyway, now that I got my incoherent rambling out of the way, let's talk about this book and the fact that I loved it. This here isn't your typical Little Mermaid retelling. There's no sweet princess with romantic ideas about the human world. No innocent prince looking for love.Instead, we get Lira, a cruel siren princess who takes pleasure in ripping the hearts of princes right out of their drowning bodies. We also get Elian, a daring young prince who has devoted his life to hunting and killing sirens."Technically, I'm a murderer, but I like to think that's one of my better qualities."They are both rough around the edges, both willing to do whatever they deem necessary, and both unafraid to get their hands a little bloody. When fate thrusts them together what we get is a book worth of verbal battles as they use their wit to draw each other out. We get tension and action, we get slowly building friendships and even slower building romances. Basically, we get a lot of awesome things that you are just gonna have to see for yourself.The author's writing style is truly beautiful. It's fluid and enchanting and I cannot wait to see what else she writes in the future because I'm officially a fan. I loved how she wrote the narrative and especially how she wrote the dialogue between characters. You could tell how close they all were and how their relationships were built. And the conversations between Lira and Elian were absolutely golden!The characters themselves were equally magnificent. Yes, Lira and Elian were amazing,  we know that, but it wasn't just them, it was everyone else too. All of the characters we meet are fleshed out, well-rounded characters. They have wants and needs and personalities that don't revolve around just making the plot happen. Basically what I'm saying is that they were all real characters and not just convenient plot devices, and I loved them all.Then there was the world in which this story took place. It was unique and intriguing. I loved the way the author incorporated so many different myths into the story, seamlessly weaving them into her world without distracting from the main storyline. For example, Midas myth with the city of gold was great, as were the myths of the other royal families.  Also, just putting this out here, this world was extremely diverse! You really do get the sense that it's a whole world being created, not just the stereotypical, magical version of England or France or some other big European country that we've all grown uncomfortably accustomed to in YA fantasy.Overall, I really liked this book, in case you hadn't yet noticed. But, all my gushing aside, this was an extremely well written, highly imaginative retelling, and it was so much better than I ever thought it would be.My one complaint, because I wouldn't be me if I didn't complain about something, is that the chapters weren't labeled. The book had dual POV and it didn't always evenly alternate between Lira and Elian, so sometimes I would get to the third paragraph in a chapter before I realized which character I was reading from. Other than that, I must say kudos to you, Alexandra Christo. This was one heck of a debut.**I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.**This review first appeared on The Book Cover Girl blog.Follow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest