Two kingdoms that come with responsibilities we each have trouble bearing. Him, the shackles of being pinned to one land and one life. Me, trapped in the confines of my mother’s murderous legacy. And the ocean, calling out to us both. A song of freedom and longing.I LOVE IT. Reading this book was an amazing experience, I absolutely flew through it. To me this book doesn’t feel like a standalone because I have grown to care for these characters impossibly fast, and I will miss them dearly. The story was very well written, it didn’t feel rushed, it didn’t feel slow, it had the perfect pace and conveyed exactly want it wanted to say.In this book we follow Lira, the Siren known as Prince’s Bane, and Elian, the prince who is also a Siren killer. We join a human Lira in her attempt to kill Elian and gain the Sea Queen’s favor in order to be turned back into a Siren and a worthy heir to the throne. We join Elian in his attempt to find an object that will help him eliminate Sirenkind once and for all. Both of them are trying to the the exact opposite of what the other wants, which is kind of hilarious, but seeing them contemplate whether what they are doing what it wants is mesmerising.Lira is the heir to the Siren kingdom, she has been pressurised all her life to get rid of her humanity and has been oppressed to become the emotionless, vile creature her mother wants her to be. Elian is a prince, who hates the confines of his duties, and chooses to escape them by becoming a pirate and hunting sirens, with the people he trusts.Every time we are given a glimpse from Lira’s childhood, the torment she is put through because she is the heir to the Sea is truly grievous. A siren, no matter what is still s girl, a child, whose humanity was stolen from her at an age where it would shape her personality for the rest of her life. And watching Lira’s humanity being stripped away from her piece by piece, and by her own mother, is heartbreaking. But as much as it made her a monster, it gave her a sense of responsibility to take what is hers and protect it. Elian’s interactions with his crew are just as endearing. The camaraderie between him and his crew is something to marvel at. Once Lira spends more time around this amazing group of people, none of can deny the tiny spark of humanity that rises in her, however against her wishes. We witness her contemplate that spark and realise the truth of how evil she has become, and that maybe even wanting to be like her mother was wrong.The truth of what I am has become a nightmare.More than anything we slowly realise that there are small things in their lives, which they have either found or created to find solace in. Elian finds that solace in being with his crew, the family he chose who are the people he can truly be himself with. And Lira in all her savageness she chose to protect her cousin, the one person she saw an innocence in worth protecting. Without even knowing it, by protecting her cousin Lira was protecting not only a spark of innocence, but also the part of her that is human enough to choose love and kindness over the monster her mother wanted her to become.We see both of them run from the people they were forced to become because of the position they were born in, we see them resent the people they were raised to be and find them fighting their way out of the moulds society carved for them. This is a story of a girl and a boy pushed to be people they don’t want to be. A story of how they choose the be the people they want to be and watching them grow to realize who they really want to be is an amazing experience. I highly recommend it and if you are thinking of reading this book I urge you to read it. I mean come on you can't possibly go wrong with pirates! And believe me when I say we've gone a long way from Little Mermaid.