Liesl has always been a responsible older sister, looking after her younger sister Kathe and sacrificing her own dreams for her brother Josef. Lisel will never be beautiful like Kathe is and her music will forever live in the shadow of Josef's virtuoso abilities. Though she longs to give into her own desires, she forces herself to be self sacrificing. Then strange things begin to happen and Kathe disappears and no one but Liesl remembers she even exists. Though her grandma always told them stories about goblins, Liesl never believed in them, even with the uncanny childhood memories of playing the wood with a small boy that she can't explain. Kathe's disappearance brings the truth to light as Liesl must journey to the underworld and save her sister, eventually sacrificing herself to the Goblin King in her sister's place. Like a lot of people I really enjoyed the beginning of the book but I think that by the second half the pacing got a little slow. The writing was really good but that doesn't help when it starts to feel like the plot is dragging. Especially when Liesl keep ruminating over how plain she is, which really wouldn't have bothered me if the story moved faster. I think some parts could have been done without in the book like  Josef being a changeling or Liesl taking so long to figure out how to leave as well as to find Kathe or the whole thing with Kathe's engagement. I understand that the author was trying to build up the relationship between Liesl and the Goblin King but the both were brooding too much and I would rather kept moving forward with things. Also I found the ending sort of unsatisfying though I'm not sure what I would have preferred happen. All in all it was really well written and I enjoyed it but I wish the pacing was better and there was less repetition about certain things like Liesl's insecurities. I really loved the underlying burning desire that Liesl was trying to suppress and the way it's brought out in her, that was really well done I could almost feel it myself.