“Why folk insisted on singing about great warriors all the time, Rikke couldn’t have said. Why not sing about really good fishermen, or bakers, or roofers, or some other folk who actually left the world a better place, rather than heaping up corpses and setting fire to things?”
i will forever be a character driven reader, and oh my god did joe abercrombie make me fall in love with every character he created in this book - from heroes, to villains, to... mostly all the characters are that grey area in-between. i really loved this set up, and the ending left me requesting book two from my library upon reading the last page.also, i know this will make a few of you sad at me - but this is my first abercrombie (i know, i know)! i will most likely go back and read the previous series connecting to this world's past, but i just wanted to finally read a abercrombie and i thought picking up his most recent work was the safest bet. but this book has so many moments where you just know it would be more impactful if you knew this person (or this person's parents)! so i do also completely acknowledge that if i were familiar with all his work, i probably would have given this five stars! but also - if you pick it up on its own, and are a lover of character driven, multiple povs, adult fantasy - i think you will also really enjoy this one!okay to quickly just let you guys know my very brief thoughts on these characters:☆ rikke - loml. that ending, that vision, oh i am currently living on baited breath.☆ orso - second loml. a charming + kind prince with a broken heart is always gonna win me over.☆ broad - the actual reason i will read the previous books. his chapters were everything.☆ savine - i love her too, and i know she is gonna be everything in the next books, but girl whewww☆ leo -my heart does go out to him for many reasons, but we will see what the next book has in store☆ vick - very complex character who my heart goes out to but i also do not trust whatsoever☆ stour - dude's real bad, but i am so excited for the next book >.<trigger + content warnings: war, uprisings, battles, violence, gore, blood, murder, death, loss of loved one, death of child, child labor, talk of child abuse, labor camps, animal death, ptsd depiction, a lot of drug use (cocaine like), threat of rape, threat of torture, torture, suicide, captivity, abduction, colorism, racism, homophobia, fatphobic comments, ableist language, dubious consent a little bit imo, incest, seizures, menstruation, vomiting, mention of cannibalism.blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon