An Advance Reader Copy was provided by the publisher for review. Quotes pulled from the ARC may be incorrect and may be subject to change.Welp, I read through this quickly. Even though it started off a bit slow, it was great that the relationships were allowed to develop slowly and surely. I did like the world building even if it was an info dump told through story-telling around a campfire. The war between the two magical factions reminded me of Victoria Aveyard's Red Queen series, so if you like that world, you'd like this one. I prefer this world though. The battle in the arena reminded me so much of the movie, Gladiator! Except that it's a female lead. I like the main characters budding hate-to-love relationship and the gladiator style battle scenes were exciting to read.As for the characters, I thought Ruby was a bit slow on piecing things together. She also seems to cry a lot and thinks of herself as weak, when in reality you know she's not. She reminded me of X-Men's Jean Grey and the Phoenix. I think this was done on purpose so we could see how she grows as a character. Here's hoping her character develops in the next book. The chemistry between Ruby and Arcus was super hot. I found myself swooning at times and I really liked their relationship. My fave romances are always hate-to-love and this was one of my favourites.A wonderful fantasy debut written by a fellow Canadian, I couldn't put it down until it was finished. Can't wait for the next book and you'll be sure I'll be requesting an ARC of the next book.RATING 4/5QUOTES"If you hurt me, I'll burn you do badly even your mistress will run in terror." (26)"I'm no danger to anyone but the people who hurt me." (44)"If we all had names to suit us, you'd be called Thorn in My Backside. Or Plague of the Gods.And you'd be Miserable Blockhead." (85)"Why would anyone want to stir up hatred when there was so much already?" (177)"Your touch hurts me, too. But it's a pain I enjoy." (302)"There is always light in darkness. It may only be a pinpoint, but it is there. Follow it and you will find your way free." (309)"When it comes to you, I like to be burned." (371)