Actual rating: 3.5 starsBut history could be twisted and warped to suit the person telling it.From the first sight Frostblood might seem like nothing special; something that we all have read before: a girl with special powers that are either dangerous or forbidden and she has to hide them. A tragic story that drives a girl to fight her oppressors. A hot guy who helps her. And so one. But under all the visible cliches there's a hidden gem. Yes, I want to call this book a hidden gem, because I find it to be one of the best debut novels I've read this year (I know the year is still young, but something tells me my opinion won't change in the end). The story is about a girl Ruby. She lives in a world of Frostbloods - a ruling class with the named abilities to control cold. And Ruby is a Fireblood - controls fire, so you can imagine that Frostbloods are not happy about her abilities, because fire and cold are opposites that can't coexist in that world. The girl hides her powers from the world, training in secret, but one day soldiers arrive at her village and kill Ruby's mother in cold blood right in front of the girl, and then take Ruby to prison. After moths locked away in cold and humiliation, two strangers arrive and propose a deal to Ruby: they will free her if she agrees to help them kill the King, the one who orchestrated the hunt after the Firebloods that lead to the extinction of almost the whole species. Ruby agrees, but, of course, there's always more to the deal, and Ruby doesn't know a first thing about the war and what she's risking agreeing to be a part of.PROS:The world-building is amazing. Granted, we don't see a lot of the world around in book 1, but we learn a lot through stories and myths. The myth part is fascinating from he capital A. I always had weakness when it comes to stories inside the stories. There's something enchanting in reading about the stories that live in myth and veiled with mystery, and the waiting for them to come alive and be part of the real world inside the story is overwhelming. And in the case of Frostblood these myths are coming alive, and apart from telling us the history of the world, they are telling us about the possible future. Right and wrong side of the story. If you have noticed I chose my head-quote for a reason. As we all are well aware history is written by the victors. In this book we see that people hate Firebloods, because they were taught to hate them. And Ruby hates Frostbloods, because they hunt and destroy her people. Both sides are convinced in their righteousness. The truth is in the eye of the beholder. But real life is more gray than black or white. And we'll learn very soon Fire and Cold can work together if only they'd let go of their mutual hatred and prejudices.This book was brutal. From the first pages when soldiers killed Ruby's mother and till the end the story was filled with blood and suffering. It was emotionally hard for me to read about what the heroine went through mentally and physically (nothing in a rape category, though). The descriptions were pretty vivid, but not gory enough to make me cringe. I had a Gladiator movie vibe, considering that there's Gladiator fights in the book and the mood was pretty suiting. So if you are looking for un-sugarcoated young-adult fantasy, than Frostblood is your thing!Stillness was a kind of violence in the hands of people who played at handing out pain.The heroine - Ruby was easy for me to relate with. I sympathize with the girl instantly. This is a first person narration and it can be tricky, because you are stuck in a character's head for a whole book, and if there's no connection than you'd either hate the person (looking at you Mare) or feel nothing, which is even worse, I think. And I believe, because of Ruby I connected with the story from the first pages, which happens rarely to me so early on in a book. The other thing that I liked about Ruby is that she goes after what she wants, but she doesn't feel like a hero of martyr. She wants revenge, but she thinks of people who could get hurt in the process. I can't not respect a person like that: selfish, yes, but not egocentric.I wasn’t being noble. There was nothing noble about a thirst for revenge. It was about getting what I wanted, a chance to kill the king. And no one else would have to suffer because of me.Plus the girl is a healer; she was raised to value life, to preserve it. She doesn't want to kill, but it doesn't mean she won't have to, because she does and she kills, but she values the lives she takes and always looks for a way without killing anyone. Alas to kill or not to kill often did not depend on Ruby's willingness, because arena is a place where you either kill or be killed. As I said, a brutal book!I liked the romance, the first stage of the romance, to be exact. I adored Ruby's and Arcus's bickering. From enemies to lovers is one of my favorite tropes and I never - never - say no to a sizzling chemistry between two characters.“If we all had names to suit us, you’d be called Thorn in My Backside. Or Plague of the Gods.”I prickled at his scathing tone. “And you’d be Miserable Blockhead.”“Is that the best you can do?”“Give me time. I’m half frozen.” <..> “Perhaps your name should be Icy Tyrant. No, wait. Frigid Despot.”“You speak as if I’m as heavy as an ox,” I said. “Last week I was a bundle of sticks.”“You’re still too thin.”“Perhaps if I gain some weight, you won’t call me a stick anymore.”“You may hope to one day be a branch.” I glanced at him sharply, unable to repress a little flutter of delight that he was bothering to joke with me.“A log, even,” I suggested.“Doubtful,” he said wryly.I loved the easy-going relationship they had. Ruby and Arcus spent months together, and there wasn't insta anything between them, but a gradual getting to know each other, then trust, friendship and love.The writing keeps you glued to the pages. It is definitely commendable for the author, because it is her debut novel and such level of masterly is not often met even in more experienced authors. The way Elly Blake tells her story, especially the myths part, is fascinating. CONS:Second half of the book was a little bit sagging. Some of the characters' actions made me doubt the logic of such decisions, but it is the first part in a trilogy (?), so I will forgive the author for some extremity, and will wait to see how the author continues her story in book 2. The romance turned into a sugarcoated glue in the second part of the book. It was my biggest disappointment after such a lovely start, and probably the main reason I couldn't give the book full 4 stars. It felt like one started a race but dropped dead sheer meters form the finish line. You can't give me such drive between characters and then turn it into mash. I blame the urgency with which the author jumped into romantic jungles and turned a perfect chemistry into a perfect sugar overdose. I lost all the joy from Ruby and Arcus as a couple, but I really hope the spark will return. So far I insist on my belief that the author rushed the romantic part too early; maybe she should've tortured us with angst a little bit longer? Of course, it might be just me and my tastes, and other people will find the romance suiting or might not like it from the beginning and won't feel any discomfort at all if they don't care for Ruby and Arcus as a couple.There's cliches in this book, especially the once in the romance part: he smells divinely, his eyes shine with thousand of colors and so one. Plus some move plots were pretty obvious, but that, overall, didn't spoil my general enjoyment of the book.Bottom line: Definitely recommend this book if you are looking for a light but not silly YA fantasy with interesting world and nice characters. Plus the writing is lovely. I'd say if you enjoyed Red Queen, this book might be to your liking too. If you didn't like Red Queen, then you have even more reasons to read Frostblood, because, in my opinion, it is better than the aforementioned queen.