Sigh. I loved this world, but I couldn't stand what happened in it. Pretty disappointed, if I'm honest. World building: ★★★★Characters/Character Arcs: ★★★Romance element: ★★Plot: ★★ 1/2So from my stars above, it's pretty clear where this novel really let me down. The world was cool, the lore behind the religious elements was REALLY cool, and the book had the unexpected awesomeness of being much more cave-focused and catacomb-centric than I thought it would be—which is a HUGE plus for me a reader, because I love caves in books! So spooky! So atmospheric!But... then I met the characters and had to deal with the actual plot. Which turned this reading experience into an exercise in frustration real fast. The Bone Crier's Moon has three points of view: Ailesse, Sebastian, and Sabine. Ailesse is the daughter of the matron, the female leader of the Bone Criers. Bone Criers are mystical women who exist to ferry the souls of the dead to either Heaven or Hell. They also lure their soulmates to their deaths in a full moon ritual on a bridge. As the daughter of the chief, Ailesse is about to complete her initiation: it's time to draw out her soulmate to the bridge. Sabine is Ailesse's closest friend, partner in arms, and absolutely not dealing well with the philosophy of what it means to be a Bone Crier. She's an awkward vegetarian in a group of hunters. She's not interested in being a Bone Crier, but she agrees to be the witness for Ailesse's night on the bridge. Sebastian watched his father be murdered by a Bone Crier when he was young. Determined to seek revenge, he bands together with two other pickpockets in the city to devote their lives to killing a Bone Crier. Every full moon, a Bone Crier plays a special bone flute to draw men to their deaths on bridges. Sebastian just needs the right opportunity.But when Ailesse initiates her flute song on the bridge one fateful night and Sebastian shows up, chaos ensues and things go south. My thoughts: Filled with tropes, expected betrayals, predictable character arcs, and a standard sequence of YA fantasy events, the only thing that saved this novel for me was its setting, its lore, and the unique world itself. Oh, and the bones, because I'm a sucker for bone magic.You may or may not consider the below sections to have spoilers. SPOILER WARNING here, just in case.In particular, I thought this novel really suffered from the romance. Sebastian and Ailesse are supposedly soulmates, period—let's get over the fact that they've JUST met and they try to KILL each other—and therefore what should have been cultivated slowly felt slammed at the reader and then never grown organically. I did not give one lick about Sebastian with Ailesse, I didn't see it, I didn't care for it, and the author didn't make it real for me despite having almost 500 pages to do so. (And then the ending happened, which really made my reading experience feel extra pointless in this regard.)I also wish that the plot could have kept up with the unique world. There were moments that were extremely cool and cinematic (the climax, a few other action sequences in the middle) but overall it's exactly what it says in the blurb: Ailesse has to kill her soulmate, or there are consequences. Sabine is the supportive, delicate side character who seems to be along for the ride but also, inexplicably, seems to be secretly special. Sebastian, the hardened boy, starts off hating Ailesse but her special spark (ok, let's be honest, her extreme beauty) starts to get to him and he falls for her after all. Etc, etc, etc. Haven't we seen this before, and done with more pizazz? Sadly, this didn't end up being for me. Depending on how people feel about the second one, I may or may not continue. I hold out the hope that the second book might bring something fresh to the table!Blog | Instagram