3 - ⭐️⭐️⭐️I was pulled into the story from the very start. The writing was immersive and the plot was intriguing. We explore this story from three POVS:• Ailesse: The daughter and heir of the Matron of Bone Criers or as they call themselves “Leuress”.• Bastien: An 18 year old boy seeking to avenge his father’s death whom was killed by a Bone Crier when he was a child.• Sabine: Ailesse’s best friend and companion <~ probably my favorite character in the book. She had the most development and really grew on me. Each character had something to add to the story overall but I have to say I liked both Ailesse and Sabine far better than Bastien whom I found to be the most bland out of them all and lacks proper character development which I hope will be delivered by the second book. I enjoyed the concept of Bone Criers and their role in ferrying the dead lest they cause havoc for the living. The Unchained are meant to pass through Elara’s gate (Heaven) while the Chained are destined to fall into Tyrus’s gate which is the equivalent of Hell. To make matters more complicated, for a Leuress to become a Ferrier, she must accomplish a difficult task to complete the Rite of Passage; that is to summon their one true love (Amoure) by playing a special Bone Flute that would draw them out blindly and then seducing them with a dance until they are too captivated to realize that they are about to be sacrificed to appease the gods. Another thing I liked is that the Leuress may have magic, but it is not summoned without wearing their graces which are the bones of their kills that grants them various abilities. For example: a peregrine falcon grants sharp sight while a tiger shark grants speed. This is a unique magic system that involved bones and animal sacrifices despite its brutality.*MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD*Now we move to the part where the book fell short. • We start by character development. I really like the characters and I believe they are in dire need of development (excluding Sabine) since they offer so much to the story but it cannot progress without the characters growing with it. • The romance was.. poorly executed? I mean I was excited to learn this has one of my favorite tropes (enemies-to-lovers) but it was very rushed and unconvincing. I still feel like Ailesse and Bastien are at the stage of infatuation/attraction rather than Love despite the last scenes in the book. I want their romance to have a better chance in the second book and hopefully the author will develop at a good pace and succeeds at making butterflies flutter in my tummy.• The climax was weak and predictable. • I want to see more world-building. This world has so much to offer please give me more of it.• What happened to the Famille after Odiva was gone? Please give them a more prominent role they’re intriguing and I want to see the more powerful leuresses in action.Bone Crier’s Moon gave me a story that I was immersed into although it failed to deliver a few elements that I hoped to see in it. I hope Purdie remedies that in the sequel because I’m definitely picking that one up. After thinking about it, it was a disappointing read after all.. it had potential but it’s the magic system is what’s making me want to read the sequel.