Someday in heaven (if I make it there):Me: I'll take novels for 200Alex Trebek: This novel is nothing but plotMe: What is Lore0.5/5I think the worst feeling to have towards a novel is disinterest. For books I hate or love, I can easily write any sort of review to coherently express my thoughts. This book, however, is in a territory I would not like to venture towards. I can't find anything that I enjoyed about it which makes it very hard to write a review, but at the same time I want to save all of you from having to endure this bland atrocity.Firstly, the 0.5 stars come simply from the interest I had for this book during the first 15 pages or so. Beyond this it was a downhill very slow and confusing rollercoaster with no sense of direction. I will title this rollercoaster I am on: The PlotinatorThis book is so plot heavy. There is SO MUCH going on that it's impossible to follow. You have nine Greek gods that come to walk the Earth as mortals, but they are not really mortals because they have powers for some reason, and then there are houses of mortals but only some people can kill the gods and if certain people do it then they don't get anything.... I don't know about you but confusion is not something I enjoy in a book.. If plot is your favorite thing about a book then I would say go ahead and read this, it's the only thing holding up this novel. Personally, you're better off reading the synopsis and creating your own imaginary scenario for how the plot progresses from here. One of the reoccurring themes of this novel is "feminism". I place this term in quotation marks because I don't consider every single page reiterating that something cannot be done because ___ is a woman to be feminism. I love strong female characters, but if the only way the author convinces me she is a strong female character is BY EVERY SINGLE OTHER CHARACTER telling me she isn't... guess what?? SHE IS NOT A STRONG FEMALE CHARACTER. Lore is the blandest person while simultaneously having a different opinion every other page.... okay so maybe she has a personality but not a very good one. I really do not care about any of the other characters because they were poorly developed. The dialogue between people is only meant to drive the plot along and there never seems to be real emotion in what anyone is saying. Often times Lore's inner monologue is just repetition of what she or someone else said a couple chapters before, which got old fast. Additionally, the "relationships" in this novel were also really boring and predictable. She doesn't see or interact with someone for seven years and then loves them because honestly his only personality trait is "being so beautiful". The ending is absolute trash. I wish I could erase it from my memory. I'm not spoiling anything in my review but I did not read 500 pages worth of garbage to have this plot heavy book end in such a stupid way. Overall, this book was a terrible drag. I almost gave up multiple times and honestly I wouldn't have missed much. Once again, TikTok recommends the WORST BOOKS and GR 5 star reviews are misleading.∙part of race against time challenge (aka read all 2021 releases before the year ends.)