I came for the crows. I stayed because I had already given up a couple of hours of my life and I might as well finish. That said, I wasn’t too invested in the story or the characters and especially not in the romance.It wasn’t at all memorable. It’s now August and I promise you that by the time the year ends I won’t remember a single thing. I probably won’t even remember the main character’s names.This book starts interestingly enough. Fie’s group of Crows is sent to burn the plague-infected corpses of the crown prince and his bodyguard. Things take a turn when it turns out that the prince and his guard aren’t dead at all, and that they faked their deaths to keep the prince from dying at the hands of his evil stepmother as she plots to sit on the throne.With a premise like that you’d think that the story would be full of adventure and fun and fights and being on the run?Well, yes and no.The book does have an adventure, I guess. It’s just so gosh darn repetitive! It isn’t fun or creative. Its actually all pretty gosh darn boring and I wanted to skip through some parts.I also wasn’t a huge fan of the writing style or the world-building. I had so many questions, but I also didn’t really care to know the answers.Then there were the characters.I didn’t like any of them.None of them were memorable, to me. That said, some were better than others.Fie, the MC, was interesting enough but she kind of annoyed me after a while. I could only handle so much of her. Jasimir was the single most annoying character in this book. Every time he opened his mouth I wanted to reach my hand into the book and slap him. He was such a brat. He was spoiled and childish and just plain ugh! If you’re going to make a character like this, at least make him interesting. Sadly, Jasimir wasn’t.Then there was Tavin. He was likable enough. He might have been my favorite here…if only he weren’t so generic. I’ve read his exact character profile too many times before.And the romance between Tavin and Fie? Laughable. Cliche. Rushed. Entirely unbelievable. Mostly, it was utterly predictable and extremely boring.All the other characters, from Fie’s group of Crows to the people hunting them, to the evil queen were all so generic and so forgettable. I can’t possibly tell you anything about any of their personalities.I also wasn’t a fan of the caste system. I’ve seen so many caste systems in YA fantasy lately that they honestly have started to bore me, and this one wasn’t even remotely interesting or new, other than the fact that the castes are named after birds. The power system was also confusing and at points made no sense.Also, this is just cause I’m a hater, but why are the people with fire powers always in charge? You’d think the kings and queens would be the ones who have the power to manipulate people’s minds? Or the ones who are immune to the plague that’s killing everyone? Or literally anyone else? But in every single story, the 'firebenders' are always in charge of things! I guess fire is cool.Also, also, this just made no sense to me personally and it’s the fact that everyone wants to kill the Crows. The Crows are the only people keeping everyone alive. If there are no Crows, everyone in the country would die of the plague. Hunting and killing the Crows put the entire world at risk! It really makes no sense to me that everyone would want to hunt them down. You wouldn't go out of your to kill doctors and nurses, why would anyone kill the Crows?!?!?!?!But again, maybe I’m just hating now.The one thing I will say is there are some racial allegories buried deep somewhere in here. Mostly in the fact that the Crows are being hunted and killed by a group of racist ‘vigilantes’ in white robes, that think they are doing the work of the gods by getting rid of the pests of the world.Make of that what you will.All that said, I didn’t hate the book. It wasn’t the worst I’ve read this year. I just probably won’t remember a single thing about it come December. I also have absolutely no interest in the sequel. I probably won't even remember I read thi sby the time the sequel even comes around.Lastly, I am 100% here for this cover. It’s so pretty and so interesting! If only the story lived up to it!**I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.**