4.5 S T A R S2020 UPDATE: I loved this just as much, if not more, the second time around. It wasn't that she wanted to burn the world down, no. She just wanted the world to know that she could.Well, well, well, well... That's the only way I can think of starting this review because my brain cannot get over how good this was. I went into this pretty high expectations and somehow I am still shookth about how good it was?Where to start, where to start. First and foremost the world. OMG the world is one of my favorites. A world that is gothic, and eerie, and revolves around a plague and different castes is a bookish dream for me, BUT then Owens takes it one step further by adding a magic system that is just as strange and haunting as the world in which it exists. So then let's continue to the point that I really don't like traveling books. Almost any book I've read where the whole book is spent getting from point A to point B bores me. Hey, hello, here is the exception. Traveling through Sabor with Fie and her family of crows was so much fun. I loved their banter and learning about the world as I walked with Fie and her flock down the roads of Sabor, stopping at plague beckons and collecting bodies along the way. It kept certain aspects about the world mysterious without leaving me feeling confused or like I was drowning in information. And you know, I've been told that three is a crowd but Vasya and Jude are going to need to MOVE OVER because Fie is officially one of my new all-time fave females. This girl is Bad. Ass. BAD. ASS. She's smart and snarky af, and cares so much for her family and her people. Girl is not doormat, let me tell you. She was so fun and complex. I loved her. I loved all the characters. There wasn't a single one that I thought was lacking, and a few that had some complexity I was surprised by. The representation and diversity in this were amazing, but what was so much better was how casual it was. Preferred pronouns were respectfully woven into the writing and sexual orientation was addressed through mundane conversation. The characters were just who they were and that was that. The writing was so vivid. I haven't read a book that had little quirks, like bits of it's own language, in a long time. Honestly, I'm not sure if I've ever really read a book that was written quite like this one. The way of speaking, and use of slang, was really immersive and different. I really loved this. It was the perfect mix of creepy, adventure, political intrigue and romance, all existing in an awesome world and around a band of outcasts who are forever being hunted. Can't wait for the next one. I need it like, yesterday. "There's been a misunderstanding." Jasimir jerked the dagger free. "I'd have sworn that prince is dead."