The Confused and the Bewitched[Apologies to Dean Wareham]The bone clocksSit clutchingChampagne andBarbecue,DividedBetwixt theConfused andThe bewitched."Being For The Benefit Of Holly Sykes!"[Apologies to the Beatles]For the benefitOf Holly Sykes,There will be A show tonightWith clownsOn bikesAnd acrobatsOn trampolines.If you don’t likeThe daring scenes,Call forThe author To be sacked.You’ll get yourMoney back.It’s just a circus act!"Jacob's Ladder" by William BlakeDwelling on a ReservationDavid Mitchell seems to have become a literary target, because he walks a fine line between Post-Modernism and commercial success.For the Post-Modernists, he's too popular to be holy. For the populists, he dabbles with genres without wholly embracing them.The dual attack makes you feel as if you must approach him with some reservation, with your guard up, that if you enjoy his fiction, if you derive pleasure from it, then you must do so uncritically or you might have missed some glaring stylistic flaws.Still, when I started reading "The Bone Clocks", I got swept away again. For the duration, I..yes...I suspended disbelief.So, teacher, does Mitchell deserve disbelief? Or suspension?The Book He WroteOver the time I've been reading Mitchell, I've had some (mis-)apprehensions that I've had to work my way through each book.Recently, his style has been described as bad or atrocious. Is it really that bad? Is this exaggeration? Does he really deserve the forensic dissection and dismissal he gets at the hands of some critics?No writer is beyond critical judgement. However, not every author sets out to write "War and Peace". Mitchell is living proof that we tend to read the book we want to, not necessarily the book the author wrote. What is the point of criticising what a novel is not, or doesn't purport to be? Surely, most half-way competent authors wrote the novel they wanted to write? Maybe we should cut them some slack? Should we just ask, how successful were they in writing the novel they set out to write?This doesn't mean that we can't criticise what they did or didn't try to do. However, this can really only occur within the realm of overt subjectivity on the part of both author and reader. OK, maybe I didn't like what the author wrote. On the other hand, I have to appreciate that the author didn't write it so that I in particular might like it. They wrote it mainly so that they, the author, would like it.Genre WreakI don't think Mitchell set out to write a self-consciously literary novel on this occasion. He just wrote the kind of novel he felt his subject matter demanded.In order to do so, he embraced genre. Again, I don't think he set out to become the next genre master, a Stephen King or Neil Gaiman.Mitchell plays around both with and within the boundaries of genre, not always by way of parody. But equally he doesn't take on strict accountability to the rules of genre (such as John Banville when he writes in the guise of Benjamin Black). He co-opts genre for his own purposes, for the purposes of his play and our entertainment. Genre is no more than a coathanger or skeleton upon which he drapes the threads or body of his narrative.My Wild Irish Prose StyleIs Mitchell's prose particularly pretentious or purple? Not really. Like the character Crispin Hershey, he says he isn’t "a fan of flowery prose."It’s neither overwrought nor underwrought. If anything, it's deliciously wrought-ironical. It’s relaxed, casual, conversational, fluid, breezy, exuberant, charming, almost flirtatious. The sort of prose you'd hope to meet at a party, in fact, the very reason we used to go to parties.The Importance of Not Being EarnestI fear more that Mitchell might become too humorless, too serious, too self-consciously Post-Modernist, too precious, too everything I write is IMPORTANT, in other words, too Bill Vollmann, of all people.I fear that one day a Mitchell book will be just too, too nice, too complacent, too middle class, too metrosexual, or if it were a little more earnest, maybe too Jonathan Franzen. Luckily, this book isn't the one I fear. I hope he never writes it, or I never get to read it.Improvisational TechniquityI had another apprehension about style.Like Murakami, Mitchell goes where his characters' stories take him. He embraces improvisation. I kept looking for evidence that the result was sloppy or undisciplined. If his writing was ever rough-edged during the early drafts, then he or someone else has smoothed it over by the time I got to read it.Juxtaposition I'm Taking for GrantedWell, maybe one last apprehension: that Mitchell's juxtaposition of disparate elements would be too arbitrary, too artificial, too unbelievable.Unlike "Cloud Atlas", the writing style is consistent throughout the entire novel. The style doesn't change with the subject matter or the period. This allows the reader to focus on the characters and the narrative without obstruction."The Bone Clocks" follows the life of Holly Sykes over sixty years, often through the eyes of her peers.Here, the six chapters are more obviously interrelated than those in "Cloud Atlas". They’re very tightly intertwined, like strands of rope. The chapters segue far more smoothly. It's worth re-reading just to see how quickly and efficiently he achieves each segue. Suddenly you're on the other side of the looking glass. They’re like snakes and ladders, or slippery slides. The transition is as easy as falling down a rabbit hole (Lewis Carroll) or an echoey stairwell (Murakami).Is This Just Fantasy?The main concern of many other readers seems to be the juxtaposition of fantasy elements (common to at least three of Mitchell's previous novels) with the apparent realism of some of his writing (in particular the first chapter in which we meet Holly Sykes).Some readers can’t get their head around the "fantasy-pedalling."Mitchell anticipates the objection, when a character pitches his next novel:"A jetlagged businessman has the mother of all breakdowns in a labyrinthine hotel in Shanghai, encounters a minister, a CEO, a cleaner, a psychic woman who hears voices...think Solaris meets Noam Chomsky via Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. Add a dash of Twin Peaks...""Are you trying to tell me that you're writing a fantasy novel?""Me? Never! Or it's only one-third fantasy. Half, at most.""A book can't be half-fantasy any more than a woman can be half pregnant."Still, what is wrong with fantasy that Mitchell is criticised for embracing it? What's wrong with fantasy-pedalling or genre-hopping? China Miéville often cops the same criticism. Does the criticism say more about the reader than the author?Deliberately or not, Mitchell's works seem to divide readers between the confused and the bewitched.Caught in a Landslide, No Escape from RealityWhile Mitchell has demonstrated that he can write in the style of realism if he chooses to (particularly in some chapters of "Cloud Atlas" and "Black Swan Green"), I don't think it's his preferred or most natural style. This doesn't mean that fantasy is either. His concerns are always too metaphysical or metafictional (i.e., Post-Modernist). He writes in whatever style he feels he needs. His style is as fluid as his requirements.The first-time reader shouldn't be surprised if the trappings of another genre suddenly appear in the narrative. They are almost inevitable. Here, though, it is strategically plotted, planned and foreshadowed ("the Script loves foreshadow"). Whatever your reaction on first reading, in retrospect it makes much more sense. Sometimes this only becomes apparent on a second reading. It won't be apparent if you grow impatient after the first 50 or 100 pages and skim the rest, oblivious to the detail or pleasures of the text.STOP MAKING SENSE!OK, that’s enough serious talking head stuff.This book is loads of FUN! It’s an adventure story. Lots of goofy, crazy, trippy, weird shit goes down. "It’s mad! Infeckinsane!" It's "totes amazeball." Mitchell must have been doolally when he wrote it. One of the characters wears a T-shirt with the slogan, "Reality is an illusion caused by a lack of alcohol." (So is realism.) It's that kind of book.Don’t, whatever you do, take it too seriously. Take it seriously, but only as much as you would a playful entertainment like the film "Pirates of the Caribbean."It’s like Indiana Jones meets "Alice in Wonderland" meets Umberto Eco ("Foucault’s Pendulum") meets "1Q84" meets "The Da Vinci Code" meets Gabriel Garcia Marquez meets the Three Stooges meets "The Wizard of Oz" meets Voldemort meets Darth Vader meets Merlin meets Jules Verne meets "Jack in the Beanstalk" meets Biggles meets "Little Red Riding Hood" meets Enid Blyton meets "The Matrix" meets the Wachowski Siblings (just in time for the filmisation).It's like looking into Mitchell's mind and seeing everything he's ever watched or read, and enjoyed. It's like inspecting the last century through a kaleidoscope. This is the full David Mitchell Experience! The uncut Regurgitator! The complete acme David Mitchell Ruse Explosion! It's like...yes...Doctor Who! "A Satirical, Postmodern, Science Fiction-influenced Adventure Story"It’s also like "The Illminatus! Trilogy", which wiki describes as "a satirical, postmodern, science fiction-influenced adventure story." (Yes, it’s been done before! Although this time it's more fantasy than science fiction.)I first encountered the term "Post-Modern" when friends who were architects introduced me to Charles Jencks’ book, The language of post-modern architecture. I didn’t see Post-Modernism as a threat to Modernism, so much as an embrace of playful eclecticism.There are ample architectural comments throughout the novel. One of my favourites goes like this:"The BritFone Pavilion was designed by an eminent architect I've never heard of and 'quotes' Hadrian's Wall, the Tower of London, a Tudor manor, post-war public housing, Wembley Stadium and a Docklands skyscraper. What a sicked-up fry-up it is." Yes, that’ll do, this novel is a sicked-up fry-up. It’s a potpourri, a strange brew, an Irish stew, cooked up in le croc pot. One of my favourite characters would have wanted it named after him, "Marinus Stew", in honour of Gilbert Sorrentino’s "Mulligan Stew", described in one of my favourite GR reviews as "wonderful, and entertaining, and it might be the funniest book I’ve ever read, and it is totally weird, and a masterpiece." Yes!The novel is also chock-full of allusions to other writers: Martin Amis, Kingsley Amis, Christopher Hitchens, Gilbert Adair, Lucretius, Ovid, W. H. Auden, Halldór Laxness (who dat, I ask?), Michael Moorcock, Philip Roth, Tanizaki, E.M. Forster, Ursula Le Guin, Murakami, Samuel Beckett, Angela Carter, H. G. Wells, Dante, Wordsworth. There's a lot about writers and writing. Some good, some bad. How can you tell the difference between a master stylist and a wild child? Who cares!Post-Modernism can be FUN! It’s a divine comedy. Have faith! Abandon doubt all ye who enter here! Believe it!The Great Illuminati BrawlWhat can you say about the plot? Somebody else can précis it. Or you could read the book!OK, here's a bit of a snapshot. Good fights it out with Evil. This is one unholy sick crew. Or two. It’s a battle between supernatural action heroes called the Horologists and the Anchorites. What? A trope? How dare Mitchell! It’s the 21st century. Can’t he come up with something new?What are they fighting about? I don’t know. What do supernatural heroes normally fight about? Eternal life? Jacob’s Ladder? A stairway to Heaven? The right to get to Heaven first? The exclusive right to get to Heaven?Whatever, they’re pretty evenly matched, mirror images of each other, reversals, looking at each other through the looking glass. This is Your Last Chance (to be by, of and in the Script)Of course, the brawl is tightly scripted. In fact, it’s all in the Script. And just to introduce some narrative tension, there’s a Counterscript. And a metafictional or metafictitious guidebook that attempts to throw more (sun-) light on the Script (written by [Cirque du] Soleil Moore, aka the allusive Esmiss Esmoore). Off course;; Esmoore == Steven Moore, the greatest author of wicked excellent perfect awesome literary guidebooks evah!!! Word, bro!!!You could be forgiven for thinking that David Mitchell had written all three works of metafiction. Some conjuring trick! No need to split the royalties.It’s a black comedy, perhaps even a black magic comedy. It’s a prank, a funfair, a carnival, a circus. There’s even a maze and a labyrinth. It’s fun, it’s playful. It's Rabelaisian. As has been said on GR before:"A work of art needs no other justification to exist than the sheer joy of the human imagination at play."There's a Feeling I Get When I Look to the WestThere’s some serious stuff, of course. It involves the Eastern perspective on the West. Some of it is spiritual (mainly Buddhist), some economic, some political, some cultural.Traditionally, Mitchell has been very pro-East. However, as the world globalises, he seems to have become more equivocal (at least in relation to economic and political power). It doesn’t matter what complexion power has:"Shanghai's aura is the colour of money and power. Its emails can shut down factories in Detroit, denude Australia of its iron ore, strip Zimbabwe of its rhino horn, pump the Dow Jones full of either steroids or financial sewage."In a Tree by the Brook, There's a Songbird Who SingsAnd there’s some stuff about love. There's a lady who's sure all that glitters is gold...Holly Sykes. Like us, she's a mortal human temporal, a bone clock. She falls in love several times. She has a daughter and a grand-daughter. But for a moment, she is a Woman in the Dunes, looking out to the Dusk as it approaches. Mitchell’s story surrounds and cocoons her. It transports her through life and this adventure and this tale. At the end, she can’t quite bring herself to say goodbye, nor can the author, nor can I:"I'm feeling erased myself, fading away into an invisible woman. For one voyage to begin, another voyage must come to an end, sort of."After all the high jinks, there is an acceptance of mortality, not with resignation, but with grace. Life is what we do on Earth. If it exists, Heaven can wait. Memories can't wait, nor can fiction. Still, whether or not this voyage has ended, I’m certain another one will soon begin. Sort of.ADDED EXTRAS:"The Bone Clocks" (disambiguation)(From Winkipaedia, the free encyclopaedia)The Bone Clocks may refer to:* The Bone Clocks (novel), a 2014 novel by David Mitchell; or* The Bone Clocks (film), a 2017 film based on the 2014 novel, produced by the Wachowski Siblings and directed by Tom Tykwer after the Siblings' epic space opera, Jupiter Rising.This page was last modified on 13 October 2016 at 11:43.Arty FactsThis is a still photo of the inside of a kinetic sculpture ("Artifact" by Gregory Barsamian) at MONA, Hobart, January, 2014 (It shows the inside of a mind through a window in the skull. An internal strobe light flashed on and off rapidly, so I was very lucky to get such a clear picture.)http://vimeo.com/44454385http://www.bookofjoe.com/2010/08/arti...http://gregorybarsamian.com/David Mitchell on his 5 favorite Japanese novelshttp://www.avclub.com/article/david-m...Invitation to a BurialBelovedReader,Don't laborFor ages.Why waitTo seeIf itEngages?Let a ReviewOf the firstFifty pagesDeter youFrom a Book thatEnrages!For the Want of An EditorIs this workPretentious,Contrived orOverwrought?What if IDon't followThe author’sTrain of thought?Well, I hopeThis Mitchell Novel won’tCome to nought.Let’s see ifBill Vollmann’s EditorCan be bought!Hugo Queues and Pees[Short Shriftfest for Gilbert Adair]Meanwhile, in the queueAt the Buried Bishop, HugoRhymes Sartre, Bart and Barthes.Afterwards in BedShall I compare theeTo a sordid, low-budgetFrench feature fillum?A Moment in LoveIf just one moment Could last an eternity,I would choose this hug.Upon Coming to the End of the Novel, Sort OfThrough my tears,I see a pair of blurryOverlapping moons.SOUNDTRACK:The Beatles - "Being for the Benefit of Mr.Kite"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCiG7..."In this way, David Mitchell will challenge the WORLD!'Keith Jarrett - "My Wild Irish Rose"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PxCea...Led Zeppelin - "Stairway to Heaven"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w9TGj...Talking Heads - "I Zimbra"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-RDJ...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3tyVn...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYFqd...'kin amazeballs:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RI3os...George Harrison - "Devil's Radio"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1X3z9...Robyn Hitchcock - "Devil's Radio"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1gJSx...Luna - "We're Both Confused"[For Readers with Disappointed Expectorations]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1tOmL..."I thought I knew [his] gameI miss [him] just the same."Luna - "Bewitched"[Dedicated to Holly Sykes]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QuiN7..."Her sleep is troubledHer face will twitchShe wakes up angryAnd I'm bewitched."