Jesus Christ. I don't even know where to begin. First of all, is anyone surprised that this is one of the most recommended books in the history of overhyped books? I am not. lmao  Second of all, Hades and Persephone? Again? How many more do we need? You know we have other Gods right? There are over twelve gods to chose from. At this point I'd read a medusa retelling. Any originality, for the love of ALL THAT IS SACRED I AM STARVING OVER HERE. You guys were like: yeah, I know. At least the smut is good...    THE SMUT IS GOOD? WHERE? WHERE IS THE SMUT GOOD?  After the first time he makes her c*m, she literally says: "the orgasm was good" with the same enthusiasm someone would say:  the chicken is ready.  LMAO   And Hades? The simp, the limp noodle we have as a character here, who shows her HIS PLAYROOM on chapter 7 like he's a wish copy of Christian Grey.  Followed by the sentence: "I LIKE KINKY STUFF" It has the same level of cringe as Christian's:  I DON'T MAKE LOVE, I FCK HARD.   You incompetent swine, if you have to tell me you like it kinky or if you have to tell me how good you are in bed instead of actually showing, you are making me drier than the Sahara desert.    Let's start with the fact that this book is supposed to be a MODERN RETELLING of Hades and Persephone. Where for some reason Olympus has Starbucks, Persephone has a trust fund and she wants to go to CALIFORNIA TO GET A PHD AT BERKLEY... because that is the way she can...WAIT FOR IT... ESCAPE HER ARRANGED MARRIAGE WITH ZEUS.   IN WHAT WORLD!!! IN WHAT FREAKING WORLD DO THOSE GO TOGETHER?  Like,  it's totally normal for an arranged marriage with Zeus and going to college to exist in the same universe and make sense. lmao So yes, the world building was nonexistent and absolute garbage.  I wish she had kept the regular fantasy/magic system instead of destroying her own book like this by making it laughable.  Just because you decided to use the word neosporin in your book, it doesn't mean it's a modern retelling Katee. However, for some UNKNWON reason, the characters talk to each other like it's the 1800s. She could have changed their names and turned this book into a mafia romance for all I care, anything else would have been better.  You know something else that pisses me off? HADES IS A PRE-MADE CHARACTER. He is literally a 3 minute microwavable meal. The characters traits are there.  The God of the Dead and keeper of the Underworld. Pop him in the oven and BAM you got yourself a morally grey character. It is the easiest thing in the world to get it right and they turn Hades into this whiny, weak, insecure, pathetic, cringe character that lacks self control and becomes a lovesick puppy within six chapters. It is SO UNDERWHELMING.   It is INSULTING.  The day you give me a Hades worth reading about is the day I will be reading another Hades and Persephone tale. (Probably never)  Honorable mentions to this particular Hades having a FOOT FETISH because he spends 20 chapters obsessed over the fact she twisted her ankle in chapter 2 and he never got over it, you'll get to hear him yell at her about her foot 16 times. He is also the guy who yells are her to eat, yells at her to remember to breathe... it's that disingenuous concern that came from an insta-love relationship.  Anyways, she crosses the river to where Hades is and they decide to start sleeping together because she believes Zeus would no longer want her if she was damaged goods and that way she could escape the arranged marriage.  In this world Zeus is a perv, an ugly old man, who kills all his wives when he gets bored of them.  The way this world building was put together, he will be the next California serial killer SINCE OLYMPUS IS THAT CLOSE.    LMAO GET IT? Anyways...   As for Persephone? She gets one line from me: waste of space. Another goddess people butcher when they write their books. Y'all really skipped History. These guys were brutal, selfish, unyielding, mischievous and you give me a white girl with a Starbucks addiction. lol This book does NOT DESERVE THIS MUCH TIME from me.  Awful, Jesus Christ. The worst copy/fanfic inspired by 50 shades of grey you could possibly read.   My first and last Katee book, sorry.