This is complicated. The tl;dr is that, while I really loved elements of this, I didn’t like it as much as the first three Wicked Villain books.The not tl;dr is … it’s complicated. One of the things I admire about KR as an author is she’s super … mindful, I think, about what she’s doing. Or, y’know, most things that she’s doing. Nobody can be mindful about everything because then they’d be omniscient. But basically there are things she’s focused on—things she’s interested in and, I assume, thinks are important—and everything else can kind of go fuck itself. I can’t deny that I admire this as an approach to one’s own work. Although it does mean as a reader you can either get on the KR train or you can be smooshed by the KR train as it steams past. With Neon Gods, I sort of felt like I was running alongside the KR train, desperate to get on board, but somehow I didn’t quite make it? And I can’t quite figure out whether that’s because I was late at the station or because the, err, KR book train only opened its doors for, like, 3.5 seconds.I need to drop this metaphor.Basically, there’s zero point banging on about the world-building here. One does not read KR for the world-building. In a KR book, the plot is ONLY (and kind of explicitly) there to facilitate the emotional and sexual connection of the characters. And, y’know, that’s fine. That’s what I mean about getting on the KR train. However, I think this is where I first began struggling with Neon Gods: the world-building is flimsy and nonsensical (and that’s what I was prepared for) but it’s also … it also takes up a lot of page count. And I don’t mean in a “this reader is only here for the kinky sexing" sense, but it was a bit weird to find myself spending so much time wading through something that not only I wasn’t super interested in, it felt like the author wasn’t super interested in either.Although this might also be a “first book in a series” issue, because first books in a series have to bear the double-weight of their own story AND establishing the framework for a bunch of other stories too.Whinging aside, all of the things I really adore about KR’s work are present in Neon Gods. As ever, her approach to consent is fucking immaculate. Exhibitionism is sort of the kink du jour here (and it’s especially interesting because the heroine is more about it than the hero, but he’s into it because she is, which is not a dynamic I see explored very often) and the heroine gives her verbal consent to intense public sex, that—in the moment—neither of them decide they want to go through with on that particular occasion. I just really appreciate this sort of stuff: the reminder that consent is a spectrum and can (and should) be withdrawn at any time, and even the idea that you can consent to something fully meaningfully in abstract, but that doesn’t mean you also have to consent to the reality of it if you aren’t feeling it.That’s just … so hot to me. And feels like such a necessary pushback to the toxic and annoyingly persistent idea that consent isn’t or can’t be sexy.Similarly—and I’ve seen in this in Wicked Villains too—I really love how much flexibility KR builds into her sex scenes, and this carries through into Neon Gods. A lot of romances tend to a portray kink as kind of a … static thing? Like the dom/me says “Imma do this thing to you” and the sub is “ooh, yay” and then the dom does that thing, and then there’s aftercare. But in a KR book scenes shift, adapt and sometimes stop altogether in response to the in-the-moment needs of her characters.Again. That’s just … so hot to me.Plus, you’ve got the usual KR themes: active submission, heroines with agency, in this particular book the notion that allowing yourself to be cared for isn’t weakness, it’s a strength. All that stuff I am so very very into. Except I still didn’t quite connect to Neon Gods as much as I wanted to. I think due to the world-building issue I mentioned above, an unsatisfying conclusion (from both a plot and romantic perspective) and wanting—of all things—a bit more from Persephone. There’s lots to like about her, she’s strong, and determined, and not an idiot, and there’s a wonderful twist where the Hades/Persephone bargain is her initiative, not his (thus subverting the romance sex-bargain trope, which is usually insisted upon by the man, and therefore, frankly, more than a little problematic) but I never really felt I knew who she was. We’re told who she is, a fair bit. Hades keeps comparing her to sunshine, and her backstory is very much about pretending to be Demeter’s “perfect” daughter in the eyes of the press. To the extent that I was eventually imagining her as a Greek Blake Lively. But none of this felt narratively real and so it was hard to engage with her actual, y’know, arc? The way she changes—how she grows, finds herself and is empowered—through her choices and her connection with Hades.Hades, though. What an utter darling. I’ll take five.Seriously, though. He’s one of KR’s … I hesitate to use the word “soft” because of its negative connotations. How about … more human doms? Which is to say, he has more in common with Hook in A Worthy Opponent than Hades in Learn My Lesson—although he’s still very much his own person and, perhaps, one of KR’s more emotionally vulnerable heroes? Again, we’re told he’s grumpy and brooding and whatever, but he’s clearly a complete melt from the second he’s on page (right down to the fact that Hermes and Dionysus, who I very much enjoyed, are basically treating his house, and his fridge, like their own). There’s even puppies later. Actual puppies. Something I sincerely loved about the book was that both Hades and Persephone have reciprocal arcs around allowing themselves to *be* cared for and *be* protected. The scenes where Persephone demonstrates to Hades that she’s as alert to, and preoccupied with, his needs as he is with hers are absolutely feels-hitting. Plus there’s a “hero reveals his literal scars” scene that is tender and didn’t seem to be focused on milking the ol' manpain. So that was nice. And I did appreciate that Hades was allowed to seek, need and accept this kind of sweetness / care-taking from Persephone without it negatively impacting either his masculinity or his domliness. Again, this is something I’d like to see more of in general.Something that should not feel subversive but nevertheless always does.Anyway: I think, having babbled about this for ages now, I wish there’d been more space on page for Hades and Persephone to be who are they are, instead of pushing them towards a tropey grumpy/sunshine dynamic that, actually, served to diminish the strength of their connection and the nuances of their characterisation. Plus I wonder if the myth backdrop (and let me very clear, I am absolutely not getting into whether I feel this was a “fair” or “accurate” re-telling of a myth, it’s a bloody myth, it can be re-told however) was meant to act much like Disney movies do in Wicked Villains, only with less likelihood of severe and immediate legal action from a large and evil corporation. Because obviously when it comes to a character like Jasmine (for example) it’s the easiest thing in the world to make the imaginative leaps the author is expecting: I mean, OBVIOUSLY she has Daddy issues, OBVIOUSLY she feels trapped by her life (she literally has a song about it in Aladdin). I just don’t think myths work quite as effectively for providing that background: partly because they belong to a different cultural context and partly because there’s so many versions of them. I think, if I squint, I can get to the idea that Persephone as a mythical archetype could be seen as the daughter of an overbearing mother forced into a mould of public perfection. But it doesn’t feel as natural as or as obvious to me as, say, Meg is a damaged switch and Hercules is an adorable sub. The other thing that left me a bit quizzical was the role, or lack of role, queerness played in the book. Now, this is one is really difficult because I think it’s a given of any KR universe that all characters are bisexual. And, on the one hand, that’s great. We live in a default-heterosexual universe right now, and it, frankly, sucks. So, yes, I love the idea of a default-queer universe (to be honest, I think I tend to write default-queer universes myself) and I think it’s valuable to have a writer (to have writers) just occupy that kind of space without fanfare or explanation. It’s normalising and inclusive and positive. Yay. The problem is though (and this is a ‘complexity of representation’ problem, not a KR problem) that it can also feel … tokenistic. And I honestly don’t know how to navigate that.I think Neon Gods has been the most heteronormative-seeming book of KR’s that I’ve read, since Desperate Measures, when I was grumpy that Jafar wasn’t more queer-coded (though Jasmine is, of course, enthusiastically bisexual as fuck). Both Persephone and Hades are, we can assume, bisexual both by dint of living in a KR universe, but also because she references an ex-girlfriend, and he references an ex-boyfriend. However, they’re also pretty much each other-sexual for the entire duration of the book. And this is fine. This should be fine.After all, not like every couple needs to be having a multi-gender 5some every Tuesday evening to prove their queerness. And queer attraction is not … just one thing. A sexuality that is primarily partner-focused is neither queer nor straight, and it’s messy to insist that queer sexuality is always addressed through explicit on page attraction to multiple genders. I mean, if pansexual characters go around constantly lusting after everyone then you’re straying perilously close to the spiked pit of the “slutty pansexual” stereotype. On top of which, it’s perfectly possible—perfectly normal—to experience queer attraction without queerness feeling like much of your identity. And that too is fine. This should be fine.So the minimal bisexuality of Hades and Persephone should also be fine. And rationally I think it is. Not that I am the arbiter of fine for other people’s depiction of queerness. But it still felt … odd. And that is not me saying the book is bad, or the author has done a bad (that’s not my call to my make), or that bisexuality has to be portrayed a certain way, or that it only counts as bisexuality if both characters are genitals deep in every possible gender-identity available to them. But I think there’s a really narrow line between a character’s queerness being irrelevant in a way that feels positive and affirming, and a character’s queerness being irrelevant in a way that just feels … irrelevant.And I don’t know where that line is. And I think it’s probably different for different people.Plus, there’s a really odd bit where Hades is getting all romance-possessive on Persephone and he says:“Someday, when you let some asshole seduce you and you’re riding their cock, remember tonight and know that they will never compare to me. You think of me when they’re inside you.”Which just seems like a really …I’ll stick with odd … thing to say to a woman you know is bisexual when you are bisexual yourself. I mean, I appreciate that it’s a non-gendered cock she’s riding in this hypothetical scenario. But, like, surely if you’re that possessive you would care about ANY lover, not just a lover with a penis? Because otherwise it kind of seems like Hades is saying love/sex between people of matching genitals doesn’t … um … count in the same way? Or, indeed, sex where Persephone might be the one inside her lover?Come on, Hades. This is nonsense. Stop being weirdIn any case, while this wasn’t my favourite KR, I still got a lot out of Neon Gods. In particular, there’s a scene on the throne, which I won’t spoil, that is worth the price of admission alone. It is very much KR at the top of her game and an absolutely gorgeous moment. *chef’s kiss*.