Oh my... Tempting, sexy as hell, addictive, stimulating! This book is pure sin! Most delicious, irresistible, incendiary sin you full heartedly and voluntarily like to commit!  Hades and Persephone can put the entire Olympus on fire with their pant melting, hyperventilating chemistry! In the bed they can start the earthquake which may rock the entire universes !  I’m telling you my dears, if Katee Robert plans to rewrite entire Greek mythology, please let her do! With her amazing touch, everything about the myths turn into something desirable, magical and soooo freaking intense! Hades she recreated is pure definition of walking talking breathing charisma! And guess what? He can be also compassionate, caring, devoted! I am hundred percent sure: this version of Hades will steal entire romance readers’ hearts! And Persephone is bold, smart, cunning siren who slowly destroys the walls surrounded Hades’ heart and sees his true self, making him fall for her hard! She’s brilliant seducer! And she also enjoys voyeurism like her dark king! Yes, they like having sex at public places! Those naught MCs never stop surprising you, don’t they? Story starts with unexpected engagement party of Persephone who finds out her mother forces her to marry with reincarnation of Bluebeard a. k.a. Zeus. Of course she cannot say no to a vicious and one of the most dangerous man of Olympus! After putting a plastered smile on her face, she runs back to her room, making a quick plan to escape because she has no intention to marry with a dangerous man to be pawn of her mother’s power games. She runs away, followed by Zeus’ guards, passing the forbidden side of the river which leads her to underworld with help of mysterious man. But as soon as she finds out that man is Hades! As everybody thinks he’s a myth at the upper city, it seems like he’s so alive, governing the underworld more peacefully and fairly than Zeus does in upper city! Persephone has no intention to go back to the upper city! So she forms an offer to Hades they can both get benefitted. For 3 months Persephone will belong to Hades, sharing his bed to guarantee to be ruined by him so Zeus won’t demand her presence when his favorite toy turned into damaged goods! For proving their point the couple has to make tons of sex !  Sexy, charismatic, magnetic underworld Lord accepts the offer which also help him to avenge the man who took his parents’ lives. ( he reminds us of secluded dark knight Bruce Wayne, isn’t he? )  So as you may guess, this book presents us a creative retelling of Greek mythology where the gods like to eat gyro platters and goddesses like shopping, running away from paparazzis’ gossip columns!  This is entertaining , seductive , wild ride you shouldn’t miss earned my 5 unputdownable, enchanting, blasting chemistry stars!  I need another book ASAP! I need more journey at Greek Islands!  Special thanks to NetGalley, Sourcebooks Casablanca for sharing this amazing digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions.bloginstagramfacebooktwitter