Hades is everything Christan Grey wished he wasI fucking love this book. I dont care if you didnt. This is my guilty pleasure. Hades is my guilty pleasure. I love Hades, I mean how can you not when he says stuff like this :minor spoilers i guess?? Just of hades being overprotective and cute. They will be prominent with being bold. Other than that no spoilers”In that moment, i'd do it again a hundred times. No matter the cost. It's all worth it for her. Fucking anything for her””You and everyone else in your life might be willing to play fast and lose for you health but i am not””I would commit unforgivable acts to keep Persephone safe””You should know by now that I can't say no to you, Persephone. You turn those big hazel eyes on me and i'm putty in your hands””Little Siren. Do you think there's a price I wouldent willingly pay for your happiness and safely?” SCREAMING CRYING AND THROWING UP WHEN CAN I HAVE THIS??”For the duration of this scene, it's my body.” He motions to the low stage in the centre of the room.”Up”I am a feminist but oh my my my what i would do to be with this man. He is literally the definition of the ‘I hate everyone but you trope’ ‘am secretly cute and soft but everyone thinks i am a monster’ and ‘ i will simp for you.’  And you know what I am here for it, those are some of my favourite tropes and I am a whore for them and I am not ashamed to admit it. He sort of reminds me of Rhysand if you know what I mean I also really liked Persephone, she was not like the damsel in distress like you hear in the Greek myths but she was a badass and knew what she wanted. To be honest she kinda reminded me of Jude from The Cruel Prince and Emilia from Kingdom of the Wicked. But if i'm being honest with you, for a book that has been hyped up about how smutty it is its not the smuttiest book ive ever read you know? There was some plot in there. And dont get me wrong i am not complaining about that no no no. But I sort of wished that there was more smut because what we were given was GOOD. Does that make me a whore? Probably. But do i actually give two fucks? No Sir I do not. The one issue I had was when the author described a PoC as Black with a capital letter on black. Like it was her offical title. Ya know? Like Queen Elizabeth has capital letters because it is a title and name? Yeah well being a PoC is not a title or name. I just think that she could have represented her PoC characters a little bit better. Other than that I absolutely adore this book!! I love Greek retellings and I love the modern spin on it. It was just so intriguing and I really enjoyed learning about it. {previous review}}I LOVE THIS BOOK SMHades is everything Christan Grey wished he wasWe stan Hades. rtc about me loving Hades aha