Biggest regards to Hodder & Stoughton and NetGalley for providing me with this digital advanced copy. All opinion posted in this review is mine.Well, that was a ride. My second most-anticipated book of 2022 turned out to be the exact opposite of what I wanted, and I have yet to decide whether it's in a good way or a bad one.What is this book about?Sixteen-year-old Joan passes her summer vacation at her late mother's family's place. She has developed a crush on Nick, her co-worker at Holland House. She soon discovers a grimmer and much more terrifying truth. The Hunt family is more than just a prideful one: they're monsters and Nick is not a simple civilian but a legendary monster slayer. As Joan's life is turned over, she soon has to confront Nick and her own identity, alongside a member of an enemy monster family, Aaron Olivers.My general thoughtsThe blurb compares this book with This Savage Song by Victoria Schwab and I was so mad to discover that the similarity between these two books is non-existent. I enjoyed each minute of TSS and I find a reason to love every single character while I have very conflicted opinions about OAM and I have a huge dent against Joan, the protagonist.OAM is a hard book to review since I don't really like or hate it. Overall, I think it was an average ride, there was an attempt at writing a character-driven story (that failed miserably in my opinion) and the plot is not strong enough to stand on its own. However, I was still able to enjoy the story in a large part, and I am excited to know about the sequel.Things I like:The magic system with monstersEven though OAM is pitched as a dark fantasy like This Savage Song, the presence of monsters is the only similarity between the two books. While TSS was savage and dark, OAM weaves an entire society of monsters that exists alongside humans' one, not very dark as described in the blurb, but mesmerizing, nevertheless. I adore the concept where monsters can steal time from humans by touch alone and where each family has its own unique power. I would have immersed myself completely in this world, if not because of that one cardinal sin I will mention later.The hero archetype - NickI adore books with violent heroes. Nick is the best boy in the book because when he wants to destroy something, he just f*cking took it and I was here for it. His backstory made me want to cry because it was so raw and devastating, yet here he stands.The gay romance between T.H. and J.L.That's it, that's my point.The endingI have a fun time with the first several chapters of the book, hate most of its middle bit, like the action at 70%, and absolutely love the three chapters. In my opinion, that last 10% saves the entire book for me. I frecking love it because it destroyed my heart and soul. That scene between those two characters made me want to slam my head against the bus window because Vanessa Len has no right to hurt me like that. I also discover a whole new favorite trope from that 10%: star-crossed enemies *evil giggles*Things I don't like:Most of the characters:This is the definition of absent character development. They went through so much, and hardly of them even change. - Aaron: Oh the grumpy-enemy/rival cliché love interest. He is so boring because whenever he opened his mouth, he only says the same snarky things (I will ignore that conversation with Joan in the end because it is ridiculous)- Ruth: I like Ruth, but she was nothing but a chaperon to Aaron and Joan. She shouldn't be reduced to only that but sadly I am not the author.- T.H.: He only deserves rights when he is with J.L. Otherwise, he is one of the more acceptable characters.- Dorothy Hunt: Don't know if I should hate her or not but I was annoyed a lot by her dumb secrecy.- Joan: She will have her own sectionThe romance:If Joan ends up with Nick I will riot because he deserves better. If Joan ends up with Aaron I pity them because the only way that relationship would end in a messy breakup very soon. And that's because the characters are all annoying that I can't personally handle one of them.The cardinal sin: Joan Chang-HuntLook, I have never read about a protagonist so dumb and so annoying that it physically HURT reading about her. I have lost count of how many times I had rolled my eyes or turned off the phone to avoid the cringe. For a sixteen-year-old, Joan does certainly behave like a spoiled toddler. I get it, she is devastated by the tragedy of that evening, but it doesn't mean that she can disregard everything else, putting her only allies left in grave danger (by bullying them to come with her) because of a ridiculous hypothesis she randomly invented by snapping her fingers. "But this is a YA book, the protagonist can behave like a teenager." Yeah, I agree, but I am thoroughly convinced that a seven-year-old toddler can make more mature decisions than Joan. I can excuse a book full of plot holes, but I draw the line at cringey protagonists that makes me want to bawl my eyes out.Joan is a Chinese-English mixed child, so obviously, the Chinese side from her father is mentioned a lot in the book, and how this human blood flow affects others' POV in regard to Joan. Joan herself would mention a lot about how she loves her father and how she longs to return home to him, but it seems like not once in the middle bit of the books she thought about her father. Sounds kinda dicey to me.Conclusion:Only a Monster could have been rated much higher, maybe a 4 or even a 4.5 if not because of Joan. I honestly hope that Len would care more about characters' development, and maybe she can make Joan (much) less childish, because while I love the world and I am excited to have the sequels (I heard I will be a trilogy which I find suitable,) I can't go through another 400 pages of Joan's whiny behaviors.