A Goodreads Choice nominee in Young Adult Fantasy!!Okay, SO. I have been thinking a lot about Only a Monster for the past week, not least of all because of how explosive the ending was. The journey from what I expected this book to be, to how I felt during the beginning, through to what I thought at the end was quite a ride.This was one of the more imaginative fantasy novels I’ve read recently, even in a year where more of my reading has been magic-adjacent than not. In my opinion, the Goodreads synopsis does not do it justice, so I’ll try to lay it out in a way that doesn’t use the phrase “super cute boy” multiple times. Joan is a teenager living in London with her mom’s side of the family, the Hunts, an quirky group that consists of her grandmother, cousins, aunts and uncles. She spends most of her free time at Holland House, a historical site, and after months of pining after one another her co-worker Nick finally asks her out. But right before meeting up with Nick Joan makes a devastating discovery about her family—that the Hunts are self-identified monsters and potentially dangerous to others. And because the description mentions it I will too: Nick is a much-prophesied monster slayer. Not much of a meet cute!So at this point in the book I was just kind of floating along, expecting the same kind of YA star-crossed-lovers-but-supernatural. Think Scott and Allison from Teen Wolf or Nina and Matthias from Six of Crows, one doomed to hunt the other despite misgivings. And I’m not saying that’s not what happens here, just that it’s not *all* that happens. I was convinced it was going to be dramatic, maybe a little soap-y, and kind of, well, basic.But man, I would never have guessed the thing that made the monsters so……monstrous. I’m gonna put this part in spoiler tags in case people haven’t seen anything about this plot detail yet. The time travel and method for doing so was so beyond what I thought this book was going to do. I’m not really a big time travel person, but it was so cleverly incorporated and the other family ‘power’ so minor in comparison. Maybe it’s that we’re so desensitized to time travel as a plot device at this point that I hadn’t considered the ramifications fully of ‘stealing time’ until Vanessa Len laid it all out so clearly.You know, I’m not sure the multiverse/time travel elements completely hold up logistically and scientifically, but that’s not necessarily something I’d ever try to go too deep into. In the end, these monsters operate in a way that’s not too different from previous ones, and that is with a complete disregard for human life.I think I saw someone in an IG story say that Only a Monster reminds them of YA fantasy books they used to read as a teenager, and I absolutely love that idea. You could sit down, inhale this book in one sitting and be immediately desperate for more. The terminology used by Len is simplified, the kind of thing where you don’t need an entire world-specific thesaurus at the end for reference. The magic system itself is straight forward as well, and even though you can tell there’s more intricacies lying underneath that first layer, Len holds back from info-dumping all over the reader. You find out things as you need to, and are allowed to theorize in a way that doesn’t distract from what’s going on in that moment.What was holding me back from immediately stomping onto this site and throwing an easy five stars up is that it’s not a perfect novel. I think it ping-pongs around a little too much and could use some sharper dialogue. But as a debut, as a start of a series and as something new and exciting enough to be appealing to both veterans of the genre and newbies, I’m going to give it the fifth star. Mostly because I want you all to read it too and tell me what you think.*Thanks to Vanessa Len and her editor for the eARC!**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!also I’m obsessed with my Bernie/Only a Monster crossover meme, and I would still like a physical copy so I am not deleting the pic even though I read it lol