They said that love was terrifying and tender, wild and sweet, and none of it made any sense. But now I knew that every mad word was true. For Ignifex was still himself, still mocking and wild and inhuman, terrible as a legion arrayed for war; but in my arms he became gentle, and his kisses were sweeter than wine.  I've realised you see things very differently when you're 18 and when you're 22. This book is proof of that. I was utterly enchanted and in love with this book 4 years ago but after rereading it, I no longer have any clue what I loved so much about it. Maybe my standards have just risen 🤡🤡  "If one of us had to die, it ought to be the one with poison in her heart."  CRUEL BEAUTY only somewhat improved in the last part, after Ignifex decided to send Nyx home to visit her family and there were suddenly higher stakes in the story (as expected of a traditional Beauty and the Beast retelling, because this is where the heroine makes the inevitable choice whether to return or not). Otherwise here are all the cons: ➡️ Rosamund Hodge tried to make Nyx a complex heroine. Since birth she has been betrothed to the evil ruler of their kingdom, and she has been trained since young to be the perfect assassin: to do her duty, kill Ignifex, save Arcadia, and die in the process. Yet, Nyx has a tangle of emotions: resentment and bitterness and love and admiration for her sister, who has been spared from her fate since birth. Hatred for her family, who have only ever seen her as a weapon and not a daughter. And don't get me wrong, I LOVE morally grey characters — if their origin story is well fleshed out and heartache-inducing. Hodge tried to model Nyx after morally grey heroines such as Adelina Amouteru, but I could see nothing that made me want to root for her. If anything, this supposed hatred and bitterness that drives her disappears once she meets someone who is kind to her, and she just seemed desperate for attention and fickle-minded throughout the story.➡️ The attempt at a love triangle fell horribly short, and only made Nyx seem indecisive and unreliable.➡️ She starts liking Shade because he's KIND to her and she falls in love with Ignifex because he loves her for who she is. ("I wanted to hit him again. I wanted to cry. Most of all, I wanted to forget my mission and lose myself in the embrace of the one person who had ever seen my heart and claimed to love me after.") Girl both of those are not reasons for love...... 😮‍💨😮‍💨➡️ She spends SO MUCH time flip-flopping between Ignifex and Shade, ONLY TO HAVE US BE TOLD THEY'RE (KIND OF) THE SAME PERSON. Like what in the world??? ➡️ Honestly what kind of names are Ignifex and Shade anyway?➡️ The world-building was SO badly done. It was sketchy and had huge gaps and I completely couldn't connect to the characters. I had to skim parts of the book because the transitions were disjointed and abrupt or the story was simply yawn-worthy and confusing. I wish there had been more information about the Resurgandi and the Hermetic workings they invented. How do these workings or sigils relate to the Kindly Ones? How can a user channel their power? It's like Rosamund Hodge tried to incorporate so many elements of Greek mythology that she stymied her own story, because everything when thrown together barely makes any sense.➡️ It seems that all Nyx does is explore rooms in the house and debate on whether she should act on her attraction to Ignifex. Because of this, the pace of the book was unbearably slow and most of the time I just kept asking myself why I should care about anything she was doing. Apart from kissing her captor and having feelings for his servant, she basically did nothing. ➡️ I did not understand the ending at all. AT ALL!!!The stakes are not high, there is barely any action, the main characters are one-dimensional, the world-building is lacking at best, and the only redeeming quality that deserves 2 stars is the swoon-worthy quotes Ignifex says to Nyx and the gradual development of their romance.  “You seem to be recovered,” he said."I hope you aren’t planning to order me back to bed.""No, you have far too much crockery at your disposal.”He sat down beside me and started piling apples into a tower. "You are losing your ability to terrify me,” I observed after his apple tower had fallen twice.  Also I will not admit it but this quote might have made my heart ache:  Ignifex touched my cheek very gently, as if I were a bird that might be startled into flight. Finally I met his eyes. "And,” I said. “I suppose I do love you.” Then he pulled me into his arms.