Wow! With this jaw dropping cover, pirates premise and the name of the author who has written Red Queen series sold me this book! I was extremely excited even though this book was a little intimidating with its too long pages and story telling style with too many narrators. Could I say no to a challenge? Course not! I accepted and I went blind! But... well... this feels like a long warning book before reading the real story! You know the first book of series is always having some trouble because they have to introduce too many characters, the main conflicts, depicted world building which usually take too much chapters and as we wait for the author’s cutting to the chase , it probably never happens because the author needs to make his/ her introductions as good as they get and nearly at the end, the plot’s pace gets faster and when finally the real action starts, a few pages later we find out there’s a huge cliffhanger and the story ends abruptly as we keep screaming “why why whhhyy” after investing to a book as long as first book of War and Peace. This is exactly how I felt after reading this first book!!!! So here we go: I am gonna elaborate just a little more how reading 568 pages book with long chapters and at least 6 POVed narration failed me this time.  Firstly I understand how this book got so many 5 starred reviews. Some readers like to read detailed depictions of world building and lose themselves inside characters’ minds but for me that incredible world building and long embellished depictions overshadowed the main conflicts at this book. Till we reach the last third, nearly nothing happened!  Lack of romance was also one of the reasons the story failed me. With this too long journey’s with lots of vivid characterization need chemistry, bonding ( not I’m talking about friendship bounding because there is lot of them in this story), intimacy to get things more excited. Romance parts also help us to connect with the characters in deeper love and invest for the relationship they have.  I have to admit I didn’t have any problem with the characterization. But I’d like to read more POVs of human villains! They picked my interest from the beginning and read more from their perspectives would absolutely think my entire thoughts about this book. Probably I would enjoy the chapters more!I think Dom, Sorossa, Valtik were way too much interesting characters but I’d like to read back stories of theme. Like Sorossa who is an assassin but we don’t see her in action and we don’t have much clue about assassin guild or how powerful Valtik is, what her back story is. We know she is witch but she speaks so mysteriously like the fraud clairvoyants tell you lies to get your entire money.  Dom was immortal trying to avenge his friend’s death picked my interest from the beginning and I wouldn’t say no to spend more time with the character. Corayne is heroine, the daughter of pirate, who is destined to save Realm. But interestingly being pirate’s daughter is just a detail. It doesn’t contribute to anything about the main plot. In fact I was planning the whole story is about the pirates which was not! Another great disappointment point for me! I didn’t have problem with Corayne as a heroine. She’s unusual and she carries so much responsibility she can deal with.  And Andry, a squire, a survivor of failed quest is quiet lovely gentleman.  Nearly the end of the book, two more POVs are added which was unnecessary.  Conclusion of the story is abrupt and the cliffhanger was so deliciously intriguing but is it enough to read the sequel? Well, investing to a real long book which is slow paced with less action and less pirate premise was disappointing experience for me. I don’t know it’s worth to your time and your patience.  I’m giving my solid three stars. This book is not soul shaking, earth shattering kind of great experience for me as I expected! I still have doubts to read the sequel but there are still so many unique things I truly enjoyed about it including the incredible world building, human villains compositions.bloginstagramfacebooktwitterm