A dark jewel.Reminiscent of Ursula Le Guin, Robert Silverberg and Jack Vance, Gene Wolfe’s 1980 high fantasy begins a four book series about Severian, an apprentice in the Guild of Torturers who shows mercy and is exiled as an executioner.And like most fantasies, it’s about a lot more too. Wolfe explores themes of honor, guild loyalty and resurrection / rebirth. This can also be seen as a religious allegory, though his tone is somber and the redemption is subtle and hidden in his intricate writing.This comes with a lot of hype. Writers like Neil Gaiman and Le Guin gush when they write about Wolfe and other commentators have provided accolades that lift Wolfe’s writing out of the speculative fiction genre and praise him as a great writer period.No doubt the quality of Wolfe’s writing is impressive. He has a mastery of the language not often seen in fantasy writing (again the comparison to Le Guin). Couple this with an original and unique, highly imaginative and complex world building and the high praise is warranted.I thought of Jack Vance and his The Dying Earth series frequently while reading this. But whereas Vance tells his stories with a wink and a nod, letting his humor and personality shine through, Wolfe’s writing is dark and brooding. He creates a mood like a gothic opera.I also thought about Stephen King’s The Dark Tower series because while I can see how other readers love this work and want to read more and more – for whatever reason I find myself on the outside looking in, never really buying in.*** April 2019 - Mr. Wolfe has passed on but his incredible work lives on.2021 reread – Magnificent. In 2017 I read this straight, saw only the surface story and was confused and disconcerted. I read all the praise and knew there was a lot I was missing. It was as if I had entered the foyer of an enormous mansion and only went that far. This time the doors were opened wide and the lights were all turned on and I got the grand tour.There are so many themes in this book and the other three, actually one long story in four parts.Masks. Severian wears a mask as part of his guild of torturers, so does his victims and there are multiple references to masks. Wolfe is using the ancient symbolism of masks to add depth and mystery to the narrative.Gates. This story is bookended by two great gates, physical and metaphysical. Wolfe also uses resurrection / rebirth allusions as Severian (and later Dorcas) survive from a watery grave setting.Death. Severian is referred to as death multiple times and, as an executioner, he brings death and the threat of death. The proximity of death is an element that Wolfe uses to great effect as Severian grows up amidst the tombs and coffers of the necropolis. Vodalus’ grave robbing is also both a Christian and pre-Christian (and in this context also post-Christian) symbol of the tenuous edge of life and death.There are recurring allusions to myth and the legend, from Arthurian legend to Biblical and pagan sources.There are multiple layers to the narrative. Gene Wolfe is telling the story that a future Severian is relating and also there are plays within the play, especially as illustrated with the Dr. Talos sections of the story. There is also the surface fantasy story, with deep science fiction underpinnings, and all under the rubric of Wolfe’s morality play about good and evil and a great many other things.The close connection between reality and dream as in Severian seeing Master Malrubius and his dog again and again.Vodalus. A rival and foil of the Autarch, this character is also a source of leadership and revelation for Severian.Thecla, Dorcas and Agia. Severian seems to fall in love easily and his interplay with these three strong females add further complexity to an already fascinating story. Water and wine, multiple allusions from Wolfe’s Catholicism. Wolfe blends and blurs the lines between fantasy and science fiction. As this is a “Dying Earth” story, set in the distant future, the ancient, misunderstood technology is treated as magical realism. Likewise, the aliens who inhabit earth are seen more as monsters than as beings of another planet.All this and more to say that this is a truly unique and superlative narrative that transcends the SFF label.