3.5 starsUPDATE: I am still chewing on this story, 7 months later. I had to bump it up to 4 stars for the sheer lasting effect alone. Maybe I love this?There is such a thing as too much, too fast, too deep, and too convoluted in high fantasy. This is arguably it.Writing: ★★★★★World Building: ★★★★★Pacing: ★★Timeline: ★Overall Reader Enjoyment: ★ for the act of sorting out the plot, and ★★★★ for the actual world and events once decipheredI’ve never had to make a literal flow chart for a book before this one, but I would not have been able to confidently say I’d read and understood The Ruin of Kings without it. Despite its completely messed up status as Too Much, I think I loved it. Let's talk about the elephant in the room: The Ruin of Kings' complete clusterf--- of a timeline and general sense of place and character development. Now—separate from the plot and enjoyment as a reader—it can be stated that this plot is very intelligent and the narrative IS insanely clever. But when something is that complicated, is it enjoyable to read? The Ruin of Kings starts off like an oral narrative with two characters, Kithrin and Talon, in a prison/dungeon cell setting. Kithrin prisoner, Talon jailor. Talon goads Kithrin into telling his life story and agrees to supplement the story with every other POV that matters (Talon is able to impersonate/become other people, like Mystique in X-Men but with a complete mental takeover as well). Yes, it gets very confusing. So far though, so good—each chapter alternates between Kithrin's POV and Talon's narrators. There are also some intriguing footnotes from a third person who is obviously listening to these recordings, but we'll get to those later.Now here's where this gets sticky: Talon's timelines are all in the past, following their own linear structure, while Kithrin's timeline is all in the future, following his linear structure. Confusing, right? It's like cutting one story into two parts, and having you alternate between the beginning of the book and the 50% mark of the book....simultaneously.You might be thinking that this linear mind mess must have a purpose or, at the very least, an epic time-release pay off. (From my opinion, the jury's out on this one.) Little is revealed that wasn't already alluded to, and the climax is—if anything—made less impactful by our awareness of certain facts. On top of this, let's add a complex world that deals heavily with the concept of reincarnation. I loved that, and how people who died are either Returned (brought back to life), reincarnated as other people later in life, or other. Trigger Warning: because people Return, there are several instances where characters kill themselves. This is within the context of reincarnation and is handled incredibly well, but it is still a form of suicide and should be noted.Because of the past lives element, every single character ended up either a reincarnated version of someone OR they were so closely linked that it was a frequent problem. It was just too much. Given the frankly stellar world building and completely foreign names, locations, and customs, it was hard to keep it all straight. This was such a personal conundrum for me, as the writing and individual scenes as so fantastic. When the hype for this series states that The Ruin of Kings is a masterpiece, I'm assuming they're referring to the flawless characterizations of dozens of unique characters, the fluid sexuality throughout, or the complex belief systems and general world flow. Or maybe just the ending. Also, let's get to the footnotes. I LOVE sassy footnotes. The footnotes are from a third POV (I'm counting Talon's multiples as one), Thursivar. Why is he the footnote POV? I still don't get it. His role in the story as a semi-omniscient narrator communicating via footnotes is unclear, even as he is introduced by Kihrin and Talon in their stories. (Something that becomes clear in later books? One hopes.)The footnotes by themselves were great, but my one complaint is a larger problem in regards to the book as a whole—they were inconsistent. The footnotes come, and then they go, and then other plot points come, and then they go. Kihrin has some moments with his sexuality, but this is dropped. There are some semi-conversations between Talon and Kihrin at the beginnings of chapters (done in italics, to keep them separate from the narrative), and those drop. Also, there is a demon landscape element that I honestly don't know how to review so I'll just leave it here. ...What?(If you've stuck with me to the end of this review, thank you.)However, The Ruin of Kings did one thing right: I need to know how it goes. Cheers to those of us who embark on Book 2 - out of five planned novels in The Chorus of Dragons series- I think it will be a masterfully done ride...and will hopefully clear up some of the confusion.I'm avoiding considering how much more can enter this incredibly full plot in four more books. But I'm going to read them anyway. Because I need to know.Blog | Instagram