“I don’t want to be your hero. Those stories never end well.”The Ruin of Kings was mind blowing in every sense. Khirin is easily one of my new favourite protagonists; the fact that he faced the wrath of dragons, demons, and deranged royals (among other creatures) while constantly being called out for his low IQ was hilarious. Complete with the vastly intriguing supporting cast and endlessly amusing footnotes, I had a wonderful time reading!~★~ What is this book about? ~★~The Ruin of Kings is told quite strangely (which I adored). When we first meet our protagonist Khirin, we find him jailed by a monster, one that demands he recite the story of what led up to his current imprisonment. From there, we are thrust into alternating perspectives following two different timelines in Khirin’s past. One told by his jailor, Talon, the other recited by Khirin himself...As the adopted son of a blind musician, young Khirin’s life was made up of harp playing and the occasional thievery. This all comes crashing down when, during a robbery, he spies a prince summoning a demon—and gets caught. As the only witness to what happened that night, Khirin becomes a target of great danger. So, when the prince he caught performing a dark-magic ritual publicly claims Khirin as his long-lost son, Khirin’s whole world becomes a nightmare.────── {⋆★⋆} ──────I have never read anything like this book. The Ruin of Kings takes intricacy to new heights, combining elements of magic that I never imagined could meld together so well. The first book already saw the whimsy of dragons, krakens, immortal gods, mimics, emperors and more! I know, “How could that many things possibly work in harmony with one another?” Believe me, I’m in awe too. Jenn Lyons does a damn great job weaving her magic into this world while leaving tons of room for expansion in later books. “Do you think fortune will favor you because your cause is just and your heart is full of vengeance? As you said yourself, he is a monster. One does not slay a monster with good intentions.”The world-building was spectacular! Lyons crafts a realm with such rich history, that even the places our protagonist didn’t visit felt recognizably lived in. I could picture every setting in vivid detail, and revelled in much of the mental scenery. Some of my favourite scenes took place of Thaena’s island, partially due to how much I enjoyed the atmosphere.The characters. Oh my. Khirin was such an unpredictable, hotheaded, stupid teenager. Alas, how could I not love him?. The humour within this novel was perfectly to my taste; Khirin’s impulsive snarkiness made me laugh out loud during one or two scenes, which is a rare feat for any book to accomplish. Taraeth and Tyentso are probably my next favourites, providing entertaining banter with Khirin and containing great character depth themselves. (I’m sad that Taraeth wasn’t too prominent in this first book; here’s to hoping he’ll show up more in the rest of the series!)My one (pretty miniscule) complaint revolves around the soul-switching, nobody is who you think they are thing. The royal family tree was hard enough to follow on its own, so the additional ability allowing someone's soul to posses the body of their killer made characters' true identities and relationships even harder to keep track of.All in all, The Ruin of Kings is an incredibly immersive and enjoyable high fantasy. If you tend to like very complex storylines and magic systems, this one is definitely for you. Exhilarating battle sequences and plot twists will have you on the edge of your seat for sure! However, If you enjoy more straightforward fantasies, I’d give this one a pass. Did not expect to love this book so much, but it was amazing!