Welcome to the party. Let me introduce you: Subtlety, meet Ms. Kuang; Ms. Kuang, meet Nuance. I see you’ve already met Didacticism, Repetitiveness and Overexplaining, so no intros needed there.————————This book, besides managing to both annoy me and bore me to tears also managed to almost ruin footnotes for me. (That’s a crime, given that I, as a devoted Terry Pratchett fan, have not previously met a footnote I didn’t love — until Babel came along).It’s a book that greatly suffers under the sheer weight of its dry heavy-handed didacticism as the author seems earnestly terrified of the readers somehow failing to grasp the very basic message she’s so relentlessly trying to convey by incessantly sledgehammering it into our brains. 
“It was so obvious now that he was not, and could never be, a person in his father’s eyes. No, personhood demanded the blood purity of the European man, the racial status that would make him Professor Lovell’s equal. Little Dick and Philippa were persons. Robin Swift was an asset, and assets should be undyingly grateful that they were treated well at all.”
Had I never known that colonialism is not a good thing, maybe I would have found something interesting here. But because I haven’t actually grown up under a rock, the relentless boring unsubtleness was a bit too much to endure over 500 pages.Seriously, no thanks. I think I’m becoming a bit allergic to books that seem to doubt readers’ ability to come to their own conclusions and instead opt for the sledgehammer approach, badgering the reader over the head with anvil-like statements lest that reader does not come to the obvious predetermined conclusions, and then spoonfeeding more of the same in the neverending pontificating footnotes. 
“You have such a great fear of freedom, brother. It’s shackling you. You’ve identified so hard with the colonizer, you think any threat to them is a threat to you. When are you going to realize you can’t be one of them?” Trust your reader and stop badgering me. I *get* your point, and repeating it 456654346764 times doesn’t make me get it more. Instead, give me an interesting story populated by characters who are more than one-note forgettable message-vehicles. Give me a touch of nuance rather than starkly simplistic divisions of everything. Give me anything besides lackluster plot as an excuse for a dull lecture full of endless exposition, interrupted with equally soporific discourses on translation which quickly become repetitive. Give me a semblance of worldbuilding instead of throwing an offhand bit of magic in a world that’s unchanged from our own despite weaponized translation. Give me a single conversation that doesn’t seem forced. Give me paragraphs that do not sound like a textbook. Give me something that doesn’t evoke the memories of those earnestly idealistic books of young people’s fortitude and sacrifice - earnest manifestos - that permeated Soviet libraries (yes, I read those when I was a kid; I read *everything* I could get my hands on).
“Translation means doing violence upon the original, means warping and distorting it for foreign, unintended eyes. So then where does that leave us? How can we conclude, except by acknowledging that an act of translation is then necessarily always an act of betrayal?”
I finished it because it seems that I’m terminally unable to put even a completely unengaging book aside (yes, I know it’s a problem; I need to see someone about that). Painfully dull and repetitive, but still not as bad as my 1-star reads, even if it butchers the magic of a well-crafted footnote. So very annoyed 2 stars it is.——————Also posted on my blog.