let's lead with the good: this is very polished and eminently readable, and it is no small feat to make a book that's at least 30% lectures about etymology into digestible commercial fiction. it ticks along like a well-oiled engine, it is a thick book where i would plow through pages by the hundred at a time, and the research that holds it up is visibly thorough, particularly where it intersects with rf kuang's own areas of study. the lectures about etymology are vibrantly, engagingly delivered, as if by the brightest youngest professor in your school; in later sections when she has to describe the conditions of warfare and siege are polished and confident as well, as this is a research-based comfort zone for the author and has been so since the poppy war series.rf kuang has 2 masters degrees, oxford and cambridge, and is currently doing a phd at yale. it is necessary that i lead with this; she has made it necessary and with this book in particular she wants me to talk about it. the research that scaffolds her books is her own academic work, which is something that has tremendously impressed her readership in the past. indeed, it's very clear that she digs deep into her research and based on the places in this book that are *just* research i am certain that her academic work is engaging, rigorous, and vibrant. however, i am currently reading her alleged work of fantasy literature, and while i could certainly believe she is a brilliant academic, that is not precisely the same skillset. all of my issues with the book come down to the same source: i do not believe that kuang has pushed herself to learn beyond the scope of her own research, or to ballast her skillset as a novelist outside of it.this would have been perfectly functional historical fiction but if you consider it a fantasy it is a failure - while its factual reproduction of imperial british history is, fine, it has essentially neglected to build a new world for itself in any meaningful way. if the copy seems unclear about how this speculative alternative history where imperial britain runs on magic is materially changed by the fact of that magic, the answer is: it is not. this is not being glib or rude. british-empire-plus-magic is unchanged from what you know of history; the history of the industrial revolution is meticulously recreated on-page, inserting 'silver' before 'industrial', but having researched what actually happened, the author seems extraordinarily timid about changing the shape of that world. the lack of inventiveness with how - not just The Empire but the people that make it up would react to having real magic at their disposal!! - is not just lazy but distracting. the excess of exact plausibility came around to breaking my suspension of disbelief from the other side. there's a footnote where she mentions one of william blake's poems ("dark satanic mills") and if you do that it begs the question - do you think william blake would have written the same library of poetry word for word in a world where there is, again, real magic? look at blake's paintings, look me in the eye, and tell me that again. there is no joy and no curiosity about how she builds a world allegedly divergent from our own and no creativity about the ripple effects of magic and its potential uses beyond kuang's own (again, itself very enchanting) passion for translated words. in the end, the function of the magic is exclusively to provide convenient on-off switch so she can deliver a fantasy of 'what if we could simply turn off the engines of empire?' and while that's a soothing vision in late capitalism it feels not just shallow but unsatisfying, because if history as we know it is utterly unchanged by the addition of 'silver' then it's hard to believe that its removal will have any enduring effects. like oh no, samuel crompton invented the spinning mule with magic in your world? i guess when magic is gone he'll have to (checks notes) invent it, unmagically, the exact same way?but kuang manages expectations of creativity from the front: her author's note is an extended, rather defensive description of the tower she has invented on oxford campus, and an assertion of her right to do this, argued against an imaginary guy who is i guess furious that she dared to invent anything for her fiction novel. this guy never leaves her behind, and she comes off like she does not either think that she should be inventing inside the records of history or that she is allowed to - which is a bizarre stance to take for an author whose book is entirely about how these halls are not in fact hallowed and should be reclaimed. but then again, she also leads by telling us that she kept the oyster tower from her own oxford ball because she found it such an impressive and dramatic tableau of Luxury despite the fact that oysters were peasant food in victorian england. does she invent a magical way to preserve the oysters, or make any small note about this distinction in the scene? no, they're just there because they were there for her in real life and she cannot or will not imagine an equivalently excessive feast in victorian london that would shock her characters speechless in the same way. not 'i have to convey awe-inspiring wasteful luxury' - 'they have to have oysters because i have oysters'.that same creative ethic (or lack thereof) - 'it must be exactly as i know it, otherwise the readers Will Not Understand' - is also a glaring issue with its political language. the cast of characters is an ethnically diverse cohort in imperial british oxford, and their descriptions and the way they talk about their identity in imperial britain is pulled directly from 2020s twitter. this is both tonally distracting (when a student of imperial british oxford refers to the 'narco-military state'), extremely patronizing (when a student of imperial british oxford says derisively of a character we're supposed to dislike 'she's not helping the feminist cause'), and occasionally sets foot into a bear trap (when a nonwhite student of imperial british oxford calls another nonwhite student of victorian oxford a 'brown man', from a position of racial solidarity - they absolutely did not have that as an umbrella solidarity term at the time but they SURE DID have it in victorian race science! if i was writing a book about a mixed cohort in imperial british oxford i feel like the first thing i would do is a basic google of how people were talking about race at the time to see what i wanted to use and what i wanted to meticulously discard - and to say nothing of kuang's live jstor account, she has the same google!).this is to me an absolutely insane blind spot for a book literally about language's nuance and inadequacies! how are you going to 'translate' all of your ideological terms into 2022ese uncritically, and be like 'obviously this is the only ethical language', IN THIS BOOK, ON THIS SUBJECT? more than just patronizing the modern reader*, the ultra-contemporary political language felt demeaning of the historical record: there are plentiful accounts of what it was like to experience racism, imperialism, oppression under the colonial british rule, told in (i say this deliberately) the recorders' own voices. the inhabitants of those experiences had the language to express themselves, and to pursue liberation. the authorial unwillingness to write in any kind of historical voice implies that antiracist/decolonial thinking is a modern invention that cannot exist without our modern vocabulary, and i can't think of any stance more dismissive or insulting to the history that in fact delivered us to the present. our words too will expire and prove inadequate, in time.*in case you, dear reader, do not get the point, there are regular footnotes** when a character experiences the racism of imperial british policy or literature that say 'jsyk, this is racist'. the instances of racism in imperial british policy or literature are - not subtle. i feel like if you are worried about depiction being mistaken for endorsement in your novel about multiethnic citizens of the imperial british empire, you need to table the novel.**but of course, the footnotes have to exist to put the book into conversation*** with jonathan strange and mr norrell!***the book is not in conversation with jonathan strange and mr norrell. jonathan strange and mr norrell is exuberantly concerned with answering the question 'what if england had magic' and weaving the tapestry of the alternate history that question presents, and as mentioned that question could not be further beneath rf kuang's interest. this is a thematic and tonal response to harry potter, and it's a decent one at that - from 'what if there was a reason all spells were delivered in garbled latin' to 'well sure britain runs on wizards but obviously that doesn't change anything you know about it' to the fanart kuang commissioned. but i understand why they couldn't put that in the copy.