Sunyi Dean writes a stunning dark urban fantasy, of disturbing fairytales, the ruthless oppression of women, with elements of horror, the nightmare that is your controlling patriarchal family living remote and separate from normal human society, that asks who are the real monsters, and details the impact of a terrible love. The tall Devon Fairweather is a book eater princess, growing up in the Yorkshire Fairweather Manor, close to no-one, not knowing any women, raised on a diet of fairytales and cautionary tales, not missing a mother she cannot remember, blissfully unaware of the invisible iron bars of the prison she is trapped in. However, the first tentacles of disillusion set in after her first arranged marriage to Luton Winterfield, when she becomes a mother, with her inklings of the bitter knowledge that she is completely powerless.As Devon has to confront broken promises, it dawns on her that Bookeater families did not value families, daughters, who are rare, are purely commodities, valued only for their ability to have children, and sons are expendable. Devon gives birth to a 'mind eater' son, Cai, feared as a monster with his desperate and addictive dietary need to consume brains. Feeling a mother's love for her son, Devon is forced to escape to save him, and is currently living in a flat in Newcastle, seeking suitable humans to feed 5 year old Cai, drinking in her search for oblivion. She is trying to track down Redemption, a drug that will save her son by transforming him into a book eater, although the desire for minds remains, but the Ravenscar family that produces Redemption has imploded and supplies have dried up. In a narrative that shifts from past to present, Devon tries to outrun the powerful and dangerous controlling forces arraigned against her and Cai, her chosen family including Hester Ravenscar, but will they survive?Dean engages in richly descriptive world building, a universe in which practically everyone is a 'monster', including the complicated central protagonist, Devon, becoming the wrong kind of princess, willing to make whatever sacrifices are necessary to save Cai. In the process, she becomes clearer about her sexual identity when she meets Hester, and struggling to trust anyone, Devon finds unlikely support from Jarret and his sister, Victoria. This unsettling story is interspersed with excerpts from a book by London journalist, Amarinder Patel, and the private journals of Killock Ravenscar. This is a stellar and thought provoking read that touches on the issues of motherhood, parental love, the status of women and girls, whilst raising the question in a society of monsters, who are the true monsters? Highly recommended. Many thanks to the publisher for an ARC.