The Book Eaters was my most anticipated fantasy of the year as somebody who rarely reads from the genre, and I'm sad to say I found it aggressively average despite the intriguing title.I enjoyed how accessible the story was: this was an contemporary fantasy, meaning our modern world is still the backdrop, but with a magical layer weaved into it. Since I don't read fantasy often, this is pretty much the only way I can get through fantasy books, and at no point was I confused about the magical system and society. The author also did a great job of separating each character with distinct personalities and scenes, so I was never confused about which character was which, which is the other major drawback I have from many fantasy stories. I also loved the main character of this story, and her journey of motherhood in a deeply misogynistic world where her rights are limited. She really would do anything for her son, and I found her motivations and journey to be super compelling, and definitely my favorite part of the story.However, I had a really hard time getting into the story and caring about the characters. While I found the main character to be really compelling, I also found that due to the lack of meaningful interactions she has with other characters, especially positive interactions, I was bored with her story and thought it got a bit repetitive. I would have liked, for example, more relationship building between her and Hester, as well as her cousin (? I can't remember exactly who he was) that gave her the gameboy. I found what listed relationship development scenes the main character had with others to be so compelling, and I wanted more from that to keep my interest.I was also a bit underwhelmed by the social commentary that actually comes out of the novel. The idea of people who can consume and memorize books and /minds/ via eating was so interesting, and I expected lots of layered commentary to come with it, but found the book lacked it. I think, while the author did give some commentary especially relating to feminism, the sociological aspect of the book had a lot of untapped potential which was disappointing. I believe as long as readers have their expectations adjusted to expect a novel that is very heavily about motherhood, womanhood, and humanity, and less about the actual concept of mind & book eaters, there will definitely be (and already are) readers who will really enjoy this book.