A modern take on fairytales and the myth of the vampire, The Book Eaters explores the experience of being a woman and a mother in a patriarchal system all wrapped up with a fantastical and gory bow."Our childhood books always end in marriage and children. Women are taught not to envision life beyond those bounds, and men are taught to enforce those bounds. We grow up in a cultivated darkness and do not even realize we are blind."Our protagonist, Devon, is a modern-day princess dressed in black and leather, not an ingenue nor helpless, despite how she was raised - with a perspective so fixed, so narrow, as to cut off all imagination. To extinguish all hope for a better future.But Devon was not always a fierce protector, daring and vicious. It was motherhood that transformed her from a damsel in distress into a dragon. It was love, both the good and the bad, that taught her to fight."For here was the thing that no fairy tale would ever admit, but that she understood in that moment: love was not inherently good. Certainly, it could inspire goodness. She didn't argue that. Poets would tell you that love was electricity in your veins that could light a room. That it was a river in your soul to lift you up and carry you away, or a fire inside the heart to keep you warm. Yet electricity could also fry, rivers could drown, and fires could burn; love could be destructive. Punishingly, fatally destructive."I found this novel to be a fascinating exploration of the ways in which the stories we feed to our children shape their worldview, not only when they are young but well into adulthood. The ways in which the limited perspectives we cultivate for them can cause their minds to be fixed, a limiting of their imagination that cannot necessarily be undone in adulthood. I also, despite my childlessness, loved the focus on a mother as a protagonist, for whom motherhood was a central tenet of her life and purpose, without feeling as though the character's individuality was erased by her role as "mother". Devon reminded me, in some ways, of one of my favourite fantasy characters of all time, Essun from N.K. Jemisin's The Broken Earth trilogy. There is a lot to unpack with this story, including commentary on ableism and the experience of neurodivergence, and while I inhaled it (like a book eater), I can feel that this is a story I will want to revisit and savour more slowly. To allow the flavours to sit and marinate on my tongue.Representation: Protagonist is a lesbian, secondary character is asexualTrigger/Content Warnings: murder, drugging, sexual assault, sex and human trafficking, misogyny, childbirth, forcible seperation of mother and child, physical and emotional abuse (of adults and children), blood, gore, deathWatch my video review of this book: https://youtu.be/IYrtk_IXx7QYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club