The Families were her blood relations, people she loved and had been loved by; her entire world. They were now her Great Enemy.In fact, they always had been. However loving her childhood, her flesh was still theirs, her goods for the selling. Like pigs or chickens raised for the slaughter, she had developed affection for her keepers, and they for her. But that did not stop her from being consumed; pig farmers still chewed their bacon with enjoyment. Affection only made cruelty rueful.What a cool idea behind The Book Eaters - a race similar to vampires, identical in appearance to humans but with a hidden, parallel society and a taste for the written word; unless you happen to be one of their "special" offspring, and more partial to a tasty brain. And while there were some rough edges, it lived up to that super-enticing premise!There's a fair bit of back and forth on the story as the reader is slowly let into the loop on the various machinations at play - plots within plots and all that. As it unfolds, we get to know Devon and her complicated history, which is truly horrible but incredibly interesting. The Book Eater society is well thought through and the societal commentary spot on, if a little straightforward occasionally.The rough edges weren't too bad, either; some occasionally clunky dialogue (accents, especially regional UK ones, don't always translate to text well) and the story feeling a little light on interpersonal interactions weren't enough to keep me from racing through a really compelling story. I would have liked to see more of Hester and Devon getting a chance to know each other, maybe some more of Devon's childhood with her brother too. It resulted in a lot of Devon telling the reader her feelings without the same kind of buildup we got with Jarrow - his was the only relationship that felt natural to me. But there's plenty of hints that a sequel might be on the way - though this ends in a good place if not - so I'll cross my fingers for a bit more next time.