This was another five star read. I mean, how can it not be. The effort this author has put into the books is unbelievable. Not sure how long it takes her to do her research.“It has always been forever, for me, Sassenach” Twenty years have passed and Claire returns through the stones. I thought their first meeting fell a little bit flat for me! Maybe my expections were too high.Plenty has happened in the twenty years that Claire and Jamie have been apart. Some of the things I wish didn’t happen, but c'est la vie! “Do ye not understand?"he said, in near desparation. "I would lay the world at your feet, Claire-and I have nothing to give ye!"He honestly thought it mattered.As with the other books, Jamie is swoon-worthy. Everything he says is beautiful. It is fiction so some of the stuff is to be taken with a grain of salt. I mean some of the coincidences were a bit much. John Grey on the same boat as Claire was on: of all the islands in the Caribbean she finds the shipwreck of the original boat on THAT island: Lawrence shows up and he has already met Jamie years ago in EdinburghAgain, the attention to detail in these books is wonderful. The first two books, I found the beginnings a little show but not with this one… it was an adventure nearly all the way.“For so many years, for so long, I have been so many things, so many different men. But here," he said, so softly I could barely hear him, "here in the dark, with you… I have no name.” I shook so that it was some time before I realized that he was shaking too, and for the same reason. I don't know how long we sat there on the dusty floor, crying in each others arms with the longing of twenty years spilling down our faces.Each book has taken me five or six days to read, so you will need patience and time and dedication. But they have been worth it so far.I might take a wee break now and read something else but I look forward to returning to another adventure with Jamie and Claire."Do ye want me?" he whispered. "Sassenach, will ye take me - and risk the man that I am, for the sake of the man ye knew?”