With a unique magic system, a story drawn from real historical events and periods, and a book that combines the skills of translation and communication with the love for language and words then this should have been one of my favourite Fantasy novels this year. Afterall, it had all the ingredients to make it so. However, it fell short on the substance around the key themes, the storytelling, world building, the plot and also the characters. As the reader I felt the authors view / history lesson took centre stage to the detriment of more developed characters. Disappointing when there was so much scope to portray more diversity and uniqueness in this group of people which the author herself created. A huge disappointment in a book I had deliberately kept aside for the right moment to read.I will go straight into why?⭐⭐ The plot and storyline disappointed – if you remove the historical detail and references, there was not much of a plot and storyline for me. The historical detail felt repetitive, constant and after 500+ pages - monotonous. Yet the context and important detail was missing in the scenes, sub plots, backstory, and conversations. For example, they managed to recruit a young Robin into the underground movement in the first month - yes even in fantasy some things can be far-fetched. Yet we didn't get any real insight into his aspirations, inclinations, principles and motives until much later and even then it was light. Robin also assisted the underground movement in some of their covert operations but then we never got to hear what these exercises involved or how successful they were. There are also a number of plot holes and threads that don’t tie up and some actions that don’t make sense. Like a secret society leaving messages on Robin’s window to inform him what to do next - well that’s safe no one would ever look there!!!⭐The magic system was a bit uninspiring and underdeveloped in the book. At one point using silver bars was considered so strong it could kill and so as a reader I was braced for a unique and powerful force to play its role in the plot and the lives of the characters but then it's 'magic' all but disappeared in the book, although there were references to the commercial side of the silver trade and the dynamic it created among nations.⭐⭐ Historical Context - As a lover of history, I am always fascinated by the past in all its beauty, ugliness, ingenuity, ambition, wars, the politics, and the evolution of societies and people. I am also keen and a strong advocate of exploring history and world politics through a different lens. So, I thought a different perspective combined with England in the 1800s would provide the perfect backdrop for a dark Fantasy that is inspired by history and real historical events. Afterall, there is much to regret and reflect on, such as colonialism, sexism, racism, the distribution of wealth between classes at home and abroad, and much to applaud like the industrial revolution and medicine. However, for me personally, there was a disconnect between the fictional story and the historical backdrop, in this book. At times I felt I was immersed in a world of magic and then the writing switched to the author almost critically lecturing the reader on historical events, some of which felt angry but certainly more intense, anti-west and also anti-white at times. This was just the wrong tone, wrong messaging and wrong type of detail for a fantasy book and for my personal tastes. Perfectly fine for a history and non-fictional book which I read a lot of, but not a fantasy where the authors own views seemed to dominate the book and opinions Kuang was keen to express. Wrong platform but right sentiment – in many ways.⭐⭐  Historical accuracy and relevancy to the storyline - In magical realism and fantasy almost anything goes, and I rarely question historical factualism. However, in this case because the author provided endless commentary on socio-economics, geo-politics and history, I found myself question the historical accuracy and credibility of what was written which in itself was an issue because this was not what this book was supposed to be. I did not want a history lesson or should I say the authors one-sided view of history, which I could challenge in a lot of places.⭐Speaking of unnecessary detail… The author also went over the top with footnotes which also made this feel like a history book instead of a novel. After a while I stopped reading them because few footnotes actually embellished the story. In addition, we were treated with some beautiful and inspiring quotes from a random selection of prominent figures like Wordsworth, Shakespeare, Pluto, Victor Hugo, Lewis Carroll, and even the book of Genesis, but the connection to the story and the chapters was notably missing - again. So, I have to question the purpose and relevancy of the footnotes and quotes and what they were meant to achieve. ⭐ Characterisation - The character development in the story was regrettably unconvincing and 'thin' and so it was difficult to feel invested in a cast who all sounded similar and indistinguishable at times, because they were created as shells with a mouth that was needed to deliver the authors personal view and message. The author really missed a trick here because the characters represented different nations, cultures, and diversities which could have brought so much to the story. In the end my only take from them was that they were carbon copies of the author, but also unlikeable and even untrustworthy as they deceived each other and displayed little depth, substance and principles. However, they did offer more interest as a small body of people because the group dynamics kept changing, and with it deception and betrayal in the story.I will come back to summarise the plot - in essence a young orphan Robin Swift is taken to England by his new / real father, to study at Oxford where he meets three other people, all of whom have been successful in obtaining a place because of their language and translation skills. As politics and ambition on the global scale intensifies, so to does the survival and safety of the group as their own personal views are set to conflict with those of the university, the country they came from and the one they now live in. Please read other reviews because I just did not connect with the characters, the plot or storyline. There was so much unnecessary detail I found this a challenge to finish. The authors views made this feel too personal and the wrong platform to express them, but overall this ‘part history’ book did not hit the mark as a ‘Fantasy’ novel. I can relate to dark themes and storylines and hard hitting topics and messages but a strong underlying negative tone is not for me. I feel it is much more effective to guide and encourage but not preach or direct the reader towards an authors POV but some of this was bordering on provocative which does not resonate or sit well with me, and what a shame because I was really looking forward to this one.Too much detail where we didn't need it and not enough where we did.....and to finish with one of my favourite Charles Dickens quotes which was used in the book “In a word, I was too cowardly to do what I knew to be right, as I had been too cowardly to avoid doing what I knew to be wrong."and in a word - 'Disappointing'.