My ‘The Hunger Games’ week23rd march- movie is released24th march- I read this review and end up watching excellent trailers, Later I downloaded the excerpt and kind of liked the first chapter25th march- I am a proud owner of the book. Yay!26th to 27th march- I started reading the bookThis is how I thought it would go:Once I would start reading it, I would just be sucked into it and finish the book remaining awake until early hours of morning, with my bloodshot red eyes.This is how it went:I started it and was immediately sucked into the book but then around midway I started losing interest. I fell asleep and had horrible dream (credit to graphic violence). Next morning I finished it owning to its fast pace.This book is special:This is my first dystopian novel. I was very much excited about it since it was my introduction to a new genre. I would like to thank this book for such amazing description of dystopian world.The book:This is a kind of book which probably everyone has read including their dogs, cats and birds too!So there is no need to hide the spoilers but as warning-**SPOILERS AHEAD**This book started brilliantly and within few pages sucked me into it. The world building part is brilliant. Introduction to districts, new society, people’s life, the rules, the reaping, and yes ‘The hunger Games’. It is fast paced with simplistic writing. These are all good things. The best part kids are starting to read the books.But that’s where the good things end.Suzanne Collins created the opportunity (golden ones) and one by one she destroyed it. But still most of the people are enthralled by the book as it eventually came out. But I’m not.So I’m going to tell very explicitly what I didn’t like...Using the first person perspective and thus losing the chance to give depth to any characterThis story has been told through the eyes of Katniss Everdeen, she just doesn't give a damn about anyone else except her family so naturally the other characters are too shallow and one dimensional.Many people just love Peeta and Katniss but I don’t like either of them. All I knew about Peeta was that he liked Katniss from age of five, saved her twice and is now in love with Katniss, rest is mystery.About Katniss, she does a lot of thing (infact she does everything in the book) but never has a second thought about them, never reflect over what she has done, eventually no attachment with the character.People tend to like Rue, Peeta, Cinna because these are few characters that spent time with Katniss, but (again)no character has depth.One more outcome that I feel from other reviews is that Katniss is definitely heroine of the story but why make other 10 kids villain. While Cato and Clove make their kill they become monster but when Katniss makes her kill, it has to be justified as revenge for killing Rue and pity killing of Cato.This book is all about KATNISS, KATNISS and KATNISS...Very predictable plotThe plot is so much predictable that I was surprised after every 10 or 20 pages (I’m not out of my mind) because the story would turn out exactly how I would guess. First I thought that maybe my mind is highly synchronised with Collins’s mind but later on reading other reviews it turned out the plot was predictable.Missed opportunitiesThis could have been much more interesting novel. Where did it all go wrong? As I’m writing, everything wrong in story to me looks like is outcome of first person perspective.--I would have felt much more connected to the games had it contained a bit of background information of every important tributes. Despite the killings being graphical, I didn’t felt sad for their deaths.--When Katniss makes her first kill, she moves over to do other things (because Rue is dying). But later when she realises that it was her first kill, still she doesn’t reflect over it even for a minute. Killing other human has effect on the killer, until and unless killer is sociopath, moreover here the killers are kids. Instead of giving insight to their mind the story flatly moves ahead with killing and ending the games.It doesn’t make me thinkI read books because I enjoy it and because they push my mind to a new level of thinking which benefit me. This book made me think only about, why I didn’t like this book when whole world is enjoying this. No further thoughts beyond that.Maciek’s thought on this book:“The Hunger Games reads like a bag of chips, meaning you can devour it in several short bites but it will leave you unnourished and aside from gas, it won’t have much effect.”FOR ALL THIS 2 STARS(**)In many reviews people come out with most lame excuse (defense) I have ever heard- IT’s A YOUNG-ADULT NOVELAs for other books in the series, I will definitely read them but I’m not in hurry or excited with this prospect. I will read it someday, probably before second installment of the movie.To put a perfect end to ‘The Hunger Games’ week28th march- I watched the movieMovie turned out pretty good, much better than I had anticipated. As I watched the movie it seemed that novel was written with movie in mind. Few minor changes, like in the end President Snow shown thinking representing its start of story unlike novel which ends. Some scenes are breath taking, too much violence. Acting by Jennifer Lawrence is good (she turned out better than Katniss in the book). I liked the movie, rated it 7/10.This review is inspired by Maciek’s review and Brian’s review.P.S. The kind of reviews and comments I have seen makes me think this book is being followed like religion and my review will sound like blasphemy to them. But I can’t help it, I tried to be honest.