When this book is good, it's very, very good. I love so much about it, including - Amari herself, a scrappy, brilliant lead character that doesn't exist enough in middle-grade fantasy. Tying her insecurities and her strengths to her experiences growing up as a Black kid in the projects is one of the very best things about this book.- at its best, the world-building is glorious. BB Alston creates a dizzyingly magical world within our world, drawing back the veil to show us how humans have always lived cluelessly alongside all manner of supernatural beings and creatures- stg I was won over once Amari set foot inside the Bureau of Supernatural Investigations within the Vanderbilt Hotel- supporting characters are ace - I especially love Elsie, Magnus and Fiona- the plot boasts quite a few twists, some of which work better than the othersBut there are just as many things that I didn't entirely enjoy:- Alston's writing borders on the clunky at times, which can make for occasionally tedious reading. It sometimes feels like he can't quite figure out how to make a plot point work, so he lingers between hiding and telegraphing it - which means you know it's coming while suspecting that you really shouldn't- gotta think about that Van Helsing family dynamic a bit 🤨- also - what exactly is the concept of magic here? Everyone seems to be fine with having a smidge of magic to activate supernatural abilities and whatnot, just... not when a magician does magical things? But aren't all the abilities (like turning your skin to steel) magic? A stronger, clearer framework as to what constitutes magic and magicians in this world would be welcome.- the pacing of this book is peculiar. It feels like Alston drags out some parts of the book, and then whips dizzyingly through the last act just because he wants to get to the end. The writing sometimes skips a beat from section to section, not really bothering to link action and character in a way that makes sense. Choppy and a bit odd. - I think the book could do with some judicious editing too. I read an ebook version I borrowed from my library, and spotted enough typos - including some missed words and a truly heinous 'you're' in place of 'your' - that makes me want to offer my proofreading services for an advance copy of the next book!!!So - 3.5 stars. I love a lot about it, and want to see where Amari goes next. But it's very much a qualified kind of love.