Amari and the Night Brothers is Middle Grade Fantasy at its finest. This book was so great, it should be celebrated!Amari, the world, its dangers and the magic system were all fantastically imagined. I humbly request at least ten volumes for this series.Is that too much to ask? I think if you pick this one up, you'd soon agree.13-year old, Amari Peters, lives with her Mom in the Rosewood housing project. She has an older brother, Quinton, who is smart, fun and brave. He means a lot to Amari. He's her best friend, but Quinton has gone missing. Amari doesn't understand why it isn't a bigger deal. Why it only seems to matter to her and her Mom? Why isn't it on the news? Why do the police act like if something happened to him, it was probably because he was up to no good?Amari knows better. She doesn't care what they insinuate about him, Quinton is the best person she knows and she is going to find out what happened to him, whether others believe her, or not.Upon arriving home after an especially trying day, Amari is surprised by a visitor who gives her a clue that may help; the answer to which lies in a briefcase hidden in Quinton's closet.She can't believe what she finds. The Bureau of Supernatural Affairs? Is this for real? And Quinton has nominated her for a try-out? While the prospect is scary, Amari knows this may be her best, perhaps her only chance, of getting to the bottom of her brother's disappearance. She has to give it a shot.Thus begins Amari's introduction to the hidden supernatural world around her. She also discovers the hidden power within herself.Under the guise of attending a 'leadership camp', Amari is able to stay at the Vanderbilt Hotel with the other Bureau trainees. There she is fully immersed in learning, training and competing. Did you hear that? Learning, training and competing.It's a MAGIC SCHOOL trope! I know, it's called 'camp', but it's a magic school; only one of the best tropes ever created.The Reader learns along with Amari the ins-and-outs of the world and magic system. The good guys, the bad guys, the history. It's all beautifully constructed and paced out.I was totally engrossed in this while reading it. As first books in a series go, this is top notch. It definitely left me wanting more and I can't wait to see how Amari grows in future books.If you are looking for that good old-fashioned, kid discovering they are actually part of a magical world, then learns about it, competes within it, and fights evil forces, kind of book, you NEED to pick this up. There's not even an option.You can thank me later.