THIS FREAKING BOOK! OH MY GOSH! Hands down it's going to be in the top books of 2021 for me and we're only in January. This is the type of book I wish I had growing up!Amari and the Night Brothers is a fantastical breathtakingly beautiful book. I wasn't sure what to expect going in. I knew that the book focused on a young girl by the name of Amari who was responsible for trying to find her missing brother. I knew that in her search she came across a magical world that fostered some sort of competition. Don't get me wrong, I was excited because there appeared to be an emphasis on Black girl magic. What ended up following those thoughts was an unbelievable experience. This book is definitely more than a young girl looking for her brother. It's a book that places an emphasis on things such as friendship/companionship, perseverance, self-confidence, the Black experience, how fear is so easily related to hate. It’s been a very long time since I’ve read a middle grade book that truly captures my attention and pulls me in for an unforgettable ride. Amari is who I wish I had as a fictional character when I was growing up. Sure, there were plenty of fantasy series, but none where the main character looked like me and experienced the same types of things I experienced at that age. Amari is truly unforgettable and an ode to the Black girl magic of resilience. Even with her back against the wall, she never gave up the fight in looking of her brother. When her peers told her she wasn’t good enough because she was different she took their words and used them as a way to become even stronger. She learned that every battle she faced wasn’t a battle that needed to be fought alone and sometimes friends are there to remind us of the strength and courage that we have when we least expect it. I admired her character is so many different ways and I can’t wait for my daughter to get older and read this series. Outside of the amazing character development, Alston created this AMAZING fantasy world with an ode to some myths and legends we’re familiar with. It’s complex in some ways, yet reminiscent of other fantasy books in other ways. Both the plot and the overall pacing of the book were fantastic. Every page was a joy to read and while I thought I had the entirety of the book figured out, Alston threw twist after twist at me that I didn’t see coming. It was a true testament to the way in which Alston was able to capture his reader’s attention and take them on a true adventure. This is going to be a middle grade series for the ages. Mark my words. I’m still finding it hard to believe that this is a debut book. While I’m sure people will reference HP because of feelings of nostalgia, this book doesn’t need it. It stands on its own and will make such a wide impact on its readers. I’m sad to have finished the book so quickly. I’m not sure how long I’ll have to wait until the next book, but I’ll be patiently and anxiously awaiting.