5/5 starsEvery single year, like clockwork, a new middle-grade fantasy with magical themes is released, and immediately promoted to be “the new Harry Potter”. My response is always the same: a deep sigh and an exaggerated eyeroll to the offending publisher. This time however, was different. For the first time in my reviewing career, I’m going to call that comparison valid. Now, please hold on to your chairs, for not only am I going to say “If you liked Harry Potter, you will like Amari and the Night Brothers”, I’m going to take it one step further. I genuinely think this book is better… Amari, a young black girl, bullied for being from a “bad neighbourhood” has felt rather lost since the disappearance of her brother whom she adored. When she discovers a strange suitcase in his room, she has no idea how much bigger his disappearance - and the world around her - actually are. Enter the Bureau of Supernatural Affairs, where Amari begins to train as a junior agent in a world where aliens, witches, dragons and way, way more exist. I don’t say this lightly, but this book reminded me of my experience reading the first Harry Potter. The same adventure, whimsy and friendship, in an introduction into a phenomenal world of witches, wizards, and much more. The one difference being: I think Amari and the Ghost Brothers is actually better. Everything that J.K. Rowling did wrong, BB Alston does right: this book is diverse, inclusive and has a very timely message which it doesn’t shy away from. If you want to experience that “Harry Potter-feeling” that my generation had (blissfully unaware of all the insensitivities and opinions of Mrs. Rowling), but brought to a new, more diverse and inclusive generation: this series is for you.  I’ve already given this book and its Dutch translation as a gift to quite a few kids and pre-teens in my life, and have only heard back positive things. Can’t recommend this book enough: although it’s my first, I think this will be my middle-grade book of the year.