I really wanted to like this more than I did. I was very excited to get the chance to read this book early because I’ve lately been enjoying middle grade novels. There’s something so pure about these novels that sweep you away into an adventure, and Amari and the Night Brothers is a brand new diverse read with a fantastic cover. I was so on-board and ready for the adventure. The book had potential but I felt that major world-building and pacing issues held it back. I think the most frustrating part is they are somewhat easy fixes for the most part, and it would have let the core part of the novel shine so much brighter.Let’s start with the positives. Amari is a 13-year-old girl who is inducted into the Bureau of Supernatural Affairs and overall I think she is a strong protagonist. She is kind and compassionate, but also quick to anger. One of the main values Amari learns throughout this novel is that you should never lash out in violence, even if people are cruel, and I think that’s a great lesson. I also appreciated how Amari struggles with prejudice both inside and outside the Bureau. It’s always been a great strength of middle grade novels to reframe a character’s struggles in a new magical context. Outside of the Bureau Amari is judged for her race and her poverty; inside the Bureau she is judged for having magic. I think that this recontextualization is a great way for children to relate to these issues, and for children to work through these issues. Finally, while I may criticize novels aimed at an older audience for overusing the ‘chosen one’ narrative, I think it’s a great device in middle grade novels. It’s important for children to feel empowered and to feel like the hero of their own story, especially so for children who rarely see themselves represented as the hero, so I’m totally on board for Amari to be very special.My biggest issue with this novel is the flimsy world-building. Right from the first chapter I started to have a sinking feeling that I wasn’t going to enjoy this book. The author constantly throws in fun quirky ideas until this novel is completely oversaturated with random content that doesn’t add to the world in any way. Worse, it undercuts elements of the world that should seem magical and special because as readers we’re exposed to dozens of random fantastical events a chapter, so how is anything supposed to stand out? In the first (or perhaps the second) chapter, Amari receives this illusion-message-thing that gives her a vision, and in this vision she experiences so many different scenarios from flying in a hot air balloon to travelling in an underwater train. These scenes have barely any descriptions because before you know it we are already off to our next quirky scenario. Now, I’m not saying that every fantastical detail needs to contribute to the story as a whole; there is always room for fun little details. But this whole book is built almost entirely on fun little details and a fundamentally flawed magic system (which I’ll get to later).In this book Amari explores pretty much every area of the Bureau of Supernatural Affairs to the point that she explores multiple departments in one chapter. While I’ll return to the pacing later, I should mention now that this book moves at a breakneck pace. At one point Amari visits a room that I thought had a lot of potential; it was an astrology type room where the keeper can give prophecies or something. But this lasts maybe half a chapter before we’re off to a safari. As readers we can never settle into the world because it just never stops. Now I hesitate to make the following comparison for many reasons – from the fact that not everything needs to be compared to this series as well as the problematic views of author – but I need an example that most people know. So imagine if Harry Potter finds the Chamber of Secrets, explores the path under the Whomping Willow, takes a trip to Hogsmeade, pops over to the Ministry of Magic, and attends the Quidditch World Cup, all in the first book. How on earth could any of these places be memorable when they each appear for maybe one chapter, and then a million things happen in the same book???? For heavens sake Amari has the potential to be large series, why throw everything in at once???I want to move on to one of the central aspects of this series, and why it doesn’t make any sense. When students join the Bureau there is a special ceremony.
“All of you possess a unique talent that we will enhance into a supernatural ability through an ancient gem gifted to us by the famed elf, Merlin. For instance, if you are someone who is constantly being told how good a listener you are, once you’ve touched the Crystal Ball, you might find yourself capable of hearing through walls.”
When Amari touches the ball it reveals she has magic, which apparently just means she can create illusions, and in the Bureau there is a huge prejudice against and fear of people who have innate magic. Now that doesn’t sound bad on its own, but here are a list of some of the other abilities students received:Freakish Organization SkillsUnnatural LuckA MediumMastermind InventorPhysics-Defying AimSuperhuman AthleticismRead your mind for your intentionsHands transform into solid metalThere are people who can read your mind without your consent, but the undefined magic gene is the issue. Do you see some of these abilities that are just considered normal??? Their prejudice against magic should at least be based on something coherent, but it makes no sense in this world. This talent-enhancing ceremony is so completely unnecessary and just creates huge contradictions when it comes to the central conflict. Literally these enhanced abilities make zero impact on the story as a whole and you could easily forget they exist. They just exist so that Amari can occasionally notice someone jumping really high in the hall or something. If they just had all the students be regular kids who maybe had a special gene that lets them see supernatural beings, then it would make sense why they fear someone who could use magic. But oh no we need to fill this book with random quirks. Who needs logic.Now I want to touch on an aspect of the book that genuinely angers me. It may not have the biggest impact on the story, but sometimes it’s the small things that matter most. In the ceremony when the students touch the crystal, they are not just given enhanced abilities. Students are also evaluated on their potential and given a badge that embodies their rank. “This publication lists every job classification the Bureau has to offer. What positions you are allowed to pursue depends on both your potential and your ability … Badges represent you current potential – intelligence, bravery, curiosity, all those kinds of things.” And here are the list of badges:OpalGoldSilverBronzeIronCopperStoneGlassWoodPlasticCardboardAluminum FoilNotebook PaperNow I want you to think on that for a moment. Imagine how many children already feel not good enough, not smart enough, not talented enough. In the real world when you do poorly on a test it can be soul-crushing, but you can at least take comfort in several facts. Maybe you didn’t study hard enough, maybe you had a bad teacher, maybe you were feeling sick that day. You can plan to study harder or get a tutor or switch classes; a bad grade doesn’t necessarily mean you’re bad student. But this crystal ball isn’t a test for which students prepare. In one touch it examines your mind, your heart, your soul, and determines that you intrinsically have low potential. If that was me I’d never recover. I can’t even begin to express how much this infuriates me. When I was going through school I knew so many people – sadly it was mostly girls – who would just say I’m not a math person or I’m not a science person. They truly believed that there was something wrong with them and that would never change, so they didn’t bother to try. They wouldn’t do any of the math homework and then claim that their poor grade was just a result of their intrinsic ability. How many people have held themselves back because they didn’t think they were good enough?? It’s so depressing. Sure the president lady of the Bureau can say “While it’s true that badges are important in identifying those children we feel will be extraordinary additions to our ranks, don’t allow your initial badge to define your career with the Bureau. Hard work can improve your badge over time.” I would kindly like to tell her to f*** off. Imagine how insanely demoralizing it would be to walk around with a piece of cardboard pinned to your shirt (yes that’s literally how it works) displaying your ineptitude for all the world to see. What a disgusting system that is not critiqued in any way. Again it’s just a fun little quirk that is never referenced again in the story and only exists so that Amari can have an opal.Oh god this review is already getting too long, so I’ll try to be brief on my last point. The pacing in the book is terrible. I don't even know how to express how quickly this book moves. The students at this Bureau have one summer ONE SUMMER to complete their training to become full-fledged agents. That’s insane not just on a logical level, but on a story level. The author crams three important trials into this one book, and then Amari is fully certified by the end. Again, don’t you want this to be a series???? Why can’t the readers learn and grow with Amari and appreciate her accomplishments over several books. We’ve barely been introduced to this world and already she’s an expert.If you like this book then that’s great. It’s even better if you’re a kid who loves it. There are lots of positive reviews, but of course these are all written by adults so who knows what the kids think. I would never in a million years want anyone, especially a child, to ever feel ashamed or uncomfortable about the things they like. But I think children’s content deserves to be taken seriously and to be critiqued seriously. Too often I find creators taking the easy way out because something is targeted at children and they just want an easy buck, and that’s wrong and exploitative. I don’t think this author falls into that category at all but I do think that he should have put more thought into this world. There are plenty of middle grade series with rich, well-conceived world, and he shouldn’t have just dumped everything he thought was cool into one book. None of the world-building makes sense if you think about for longer than a few seconds. So many of these little quirks could have been removed to leave more room for character work. Again I think this story had potential, but unless he or his editors reign it in, it will continue to be a disjointed, oversaturated mess.Thanks to Edelweiss for the arc.