I was so enjoying this book until the first 60 percent. And then what the hell was that with all that plot concept and the unnecessary repetitive scenes?I mean what the actual beep?The writing is really good. The story started out really good!The characters had a strong mystery vibe surrounding them.It was so good.Until it made me want to kick every microorganism's butt!The explanation for all that's happening is meant to be bizarre, terrifying and creepy.But heck, it didn't deliver in any.It's just that there wasn't a boring moment in the first half and I was totally into the book that I wasn't able to do anything ever since I started reading the book.I wish the plot had a better plot concept and plot twist.It was like I was reading the season 2 of a TV series that no one cares anymore because the first season was a big hit.This book could have ended much, much, much better! I mean I was hooked with all that different mysterious characters, the suspense, the cousin who was hiding a big thing, the mystery vibes and all the fungi, mushroom, mold and creepy housemaids.The last few chapters read like a badly written middle grade mystery book. I seriously cannot believe the book turned out like this 🤦In the end, it turned out to be rather too convenient for the main character. The other characters ended as some kind of joke.They were intimidating at the beginning but I began to see them as Casper (sorry, my cutest ghost love!🤧 I don't know any other nonscary ghost reference!) who were rather annoying and being perverts at best but not terrifying or creepy as they were meant to. The character of Virgil was robotic.The character of Howard was disgusting. Not disgusting good as in fun reading for such kind of books but damn plain disgusting.The character of Catalina was like a bomb which everyone got terrified of but ended up as an almost useless disco ball.And let's not pretend that this character represented Some mental health conditions as the story hinted but no. It didn't and it cannot.And the main character? She was like a totally different person like her mind got switched off from 50 percent of the book onwards. Nothing much happened after that. And I was bored out of my mind towards the end and I just didn't care who that more than a few centuries old pervert was trying to mate with or who Virgil was going to rape. Because it's freaking boring because of the plot reveal. It was really lame to be honest. It just was because of the sudden shift in the writing style. It could have worked out fine but it seems like the author got bored and just had to finish up the book whatsoever.However, I read the book till the last page.But this book left me so disappointed.*TW: incest, sexual assault, strong language, sexist remarks, graphic scenes***One of the worse books with the worse character development because it didn't happen at all.***Worse romance couples in fiction if there's romance at all between Francis and NoemíThe ending was so cringy. Bad cheesy cringy.Bleh!