Hesina becomes queen after the death of her father, and is determined to find his murderer. But there are truths that do more harm than good...Do you ever feel like you read a completely different book than everyone else?The summary for this was incredibly intriguing—billed as an Asian GoT, with twists, turns, politics, war and feminist agency, I was beyond hooked. And all of the reviews from my Goodreads friends had me psyched and ready to rock on the hype train.But.This was not the book for me.The premise and promise was so high, but I felt like the execution wasn't polished as neatly as it could have been.It played out like a lot of other YA fantasy stories that I've been seeing lately—twists and turns, haphazard worldbuilding (some parts of this world were breathtakingly beautiful, and others popped out of nowhere 3/4 of the way through the book without context), and a heroine whose motivations, actions and words are going in three completely different directions. And secondary characters who are painfully one-dimensional. Plus a twist taken straight from ToG And holy SHIT how could I nearly forget all of the mentions and Akira and his ~rod~. No, that's not a euphemism he actually has a rod of wood or whatever but the amount of times it's mentioned (carved, picking up, stroked, held), it damn well should beThere are so many different things happening in this story—war, salt/water trades with a kingdom that is trying to go to war with them for some reason, evil ministers, sooths and oppression and magic, a where'd that come from? love interest with a tragically mysterious backstory, immortal people, a red herring trial, a maggot-eyed scout, a vanishing village subplot that literally vanishes faster than the villages did, distant mothers and more and more bunny trails and side plots that erupted and then vanished into the ether leaving more questions than answers.Additionally, Hesina herself is probably one of the most frustrating queens I've ever seen. Where are her ministers? Where is any communication? Where are her guards, her ladies in waiting, her attendants, why are the people of court and her people all faceless blobs who gather at her feet and she doesn't know any of their names??? Where the adults?? OMGF is this what being OLD feels like?!And finally, the question that's most pressing of all: WHO IS RUNNING THIS KINGDOM?Because it sure as hell ain't Hesina.Girl spends like three days doing paperwork, is like, f this shit, and hares off to save the sooths and stop a war, bungles it because she has no clue how logistics, alliances, communication and leadership actually work, and then blames herself for not changing centuries of oppression and ingrained racism and hatred after being on the job for three weeks.Again. So much potential.Anywho, don't take my review as gospel.Many, many other people loved this book. Maybe you will too.I'm just not one of them.I received this ARC from NetGalley and Edelweiss for an honest review.