12/25/20 Happy holidays everyone! Some of you might have heard about Hesina's Imperial Court, the street team I originally organized for this book in Nov 2018, and some of you have asked how to join. Well I'm happy to announce that signups have re-opened for a limited time :) More details can be found here. The group's primary focus will be on my next book for the immediate future, but membership is for "life" and you'll get access to the entire archive of DOTC things too. Good luck to those who enter!!11/10/20 Hi all. It's been a while.About that sequel.I've finally broken my silence on one reason, among others, on why it hasn't been in the works.I will keep you posted. I will be honest: even if DOTC gets picked up elsewhere, I don't think I can return to the story for a long, long time. It's been really hard to separate all that's gone down with it on the publishing side from the actual story, and it's been healthier for me to physically and mentally move on. Thank you so much for understanding and, as always, for supporting this book.4/10/19 THE BOOK IS OUT NOW!!! Goodreads users, thank you so much for all your pre-release support. Thank you if you added the book. Thank you if you read and reviewed. Thank you if you've taken a moment to cross-post your review on Amazon. All these things have made a world of difference in getting my smaller-pub book into the hands of readers <3FAQs Is this book standalone?Are the names Chinese?How is mandarin terminology used in the text?Hopefully this is helpful! Please remember that some of these answers encompass my views only. Authors of colors are not a monolith, and like normal people we have a diversity of opinions. What matters is that the conversation--which is still sorely lacking--is on-going.I also wanted to take a moment to say that it's hard to convey everything a book is through a synopsis alone and I want to apologize if the previous one for DESCENDANT is misleading. I understand how much it sucks if a story doesn't match expectations, and so in the interests of full disclosure:DESCENDANT OF THE CRANE might be the book for you if you like political intrigue, twists, complex family dynamics, a roller-coaster type plot with a slow-build to the summit, and questions of morality in your fantasy. It may not be the book for you if you prefer more action, romance, and break-neck pacing from the get-go to your stories. I love a story of that type as much as anyone else, but DESCENDANT simply isn't that and neither do I want to pretend it is.11.29.18: eARCs are available to request on NetGalley and Edelweiss! Pleaseeee forgive any typos/awkward phrasing/wonky sentences in the ARC!!! Love you all <38.29.18: We have a cover!! It's so very Chinese, and I'm really humbled that so many of you love it.I also wanted to clarify something about the accuracy of the story. China has an incredibly epic history. It's also an epically misogynistic one. The only time women's rights was really a (side) agenda was during the Cultural Revolution. The book addresses this. It's a fantasy, of course, so it's not going to be 100% historically accurate, but I wanted to acknowledge the true, non-romanticized history, because so few books do.That, however, is beside the point. My main point is that I wrote this book as a Chinese-American. Growing up over here meant that I was surrounded by narratives about strong women, women who got stories that were MORE than just fighting to survive in a world of men. I wanted to contribute to those narratives. That's why we have a Chinese-esque princess who becomes queen. Maybe it's not the norm to Chinese history, but it is the norm that I see (and hope to see more of) in the place I call home. tldr; Stories about concubines, wives, and daughters fighting tooth and nail to be considered worthy in a sexist society are valid. They are the status quo. But they are not the ones I set out to write.---This book almost killed me and now I can finally share the pain and let it kill you.But seriously, I've been working on this book since 2013 and I can't wait to share it with you <3. It's everything I love in Chinese dramas (sprawling families, complex relationships, double-meanings, betrayal-for-your-own-good, gray morality) minus all the "meh" bits (girl on girl hate, harems competing against each other). To stay up to date on book news, you can sign up for my newsletter here: http://eepurl.com/c5rvdL