Oh lalala the idea of a book takes place in NOLA, one of my mystic, magical, gothic, entertaining city to pass a good time excited me so much. Mardi Gras celebrations, a crowded streets with its people dancing 24/7, delicious jazz quartets, boat tours around Mississippi river, cocktails at Carousel Bar and tours at the haunted places still perform voodoo (Wow! This city summons the witch hid inside me!) And of course it’s so normal to expect something spectacular from the author of “Wrath and Dawn” series. The blurb warns us there are vampires, murder mystery and of course a forbidden, hot, heart throbbing, magical love story. JE SUIS SUREXCITE! DONNE MOI ÇA! See even my language settings turned into French because of too much excitement. To celebrate my new reading I opened up Dauvissat Domaine Vincent Chablis (bought with my mother-in laws credit card, when she finds out I’m sure she will make her counter attack by stealing my sweets at home. But thankfully we don’t have any sweets left! His big bellied boy a.k.a husband dearest already consumed them all including toothpastes, splenda pockets)But now I’m so ashamed to tell my total points are 3.45 rounded down to 3 stars ( if you ask me what happened to this critical 0.5 point, I say, LACK OF THRILLING PARTS AND ROMANCE ATE MOST OF THE STARS!)I was expecting too much but as I start to read I feel like inflated balloon and my big hopes to love this book begin to float accompanied by Pennyweise!At the late 19th century Celine Rousseau arrives in NOLA, escaping from her old life she had in Paris, leaving her dark past behind. She joins a convent, living with six different girls till a proper young groom is found for her to make an appropriate marriage. But the darkness surrounds the city, a killer on the loose reminds us Jack the Ripper who chooses the young woman victims to cut their throats. (He mostly chose the prostitutes, but this time murderer mostly chooses the woman with dark pasts. So he is the punisher of sinners, nothing new my friends!) Blood drained bodies start to be seen at the streets left behind. Celine thinks all those murders are connected to La Cour des Lions, a secret, mysterious underground society which has gifted members who have special supernatural abilities.All those definitions worked with me but at the end of the book I said: SO THAT’S ALLLLLL???? A weird and meaningless sacrifice for creating a cliffhanger to read the second book. IS THAT ALL FOLKS? ( Woody Wodpecker gives its signature laugh!)I felt betrayed because:I couldn’t catch anything so mysterious and special about Bastien. Celine and he spent only one night out together so maybe I bought the reduced version of the book because I couldn’t catch when they fall in love, what make them so attract with each other? Why Michael Grimaldi (reminds me of Michael Corleone before he chooses the dark side) fell for Celine so fast? Is there any secret spell the girl uses on the man so without spending so much time and seeing her at the first time make them fall for her hard!Where the hell were the vampires? As a die-hard Anne Rice books fan ( I even liked Charlene Harris’ True Blood- but not the books, the series are better –minus the last season, it was heartbreakingly big disappointment) I also didn’t much like author’s approach to the vampires. Please they are mystical creatures with splendid, heartbreaking past time stories! But the author chose to use vampire as the bad guy of the story ( By the way the twist about the bad guy is not a satisfying conclusion made me scream: GET OUT OF HERE!!! REALLLY!!!!!)What are the special gifts of the secret organization members? ( Odette tells she can see the future but she mostly acted like artificial, senseless, spoiled rich girl more than a clairvoyant!)My unanswered questions , wasted, juicy elements and potentials, frustration not to read more dark, bloody, mysterious book with hotter and heartbreaking love story FRUSTRATED THE HELL OF ME…BUT…I still have hopes the second book gives us the answers we need, more mystery, more twists, more love triangle and more exciting vampire stories. So I still left my 0.45 point for the potential. I know how talented and how an amazing storyteller the author is. So I’m still ready to give the second chance.Well at least I had an amazing wine, made peace with mother in law by accepting binge watch Breaking Bad series with her( Only that kind of mother-in law can stand me J , forced my husband cook me pasta corbonara in exchange my secret Kit Kat stash ) So life is still good and let’s move to the other book!