This… was a turmoil of agony and why-oh-whys.First off, The Beautiful (oh, the irony) was a boring, meaningless garble of hem-hawing and woe-is-me-inner-monologuing. Now, I pushed through, hoping the plot would unfold at some point, but in the first half almost nothing happened—and so, I was deliberating whether or not to put an end to my suffering by suffocation, or y'know, by physically burying my face in this disappointing paper heap of a novel.Side note: if you're going to write a novel about vampires, maybe write about, I dunno, more vampires?Now, I am all for purple-y prose (really, I am!). But that didn't stop the tragic realisation hollowing my insides and creating a shell of my now-very-disillusioned self, that I reallycouldn'tdothisanymore. There's a fine line between beautiful and absurd—and the prose is about thiiis close from tripping over itself and dropping into the irrevocable depths of the latter (cough, "deliciously sooty", cough).And maybe, juuust maybe, I was tired of the abuse. Of Full. Stops. It's a shame, because what beautiful descriptions we read are trapped in weirdly fragmented phrasing. And as for the characters—or what I suppose those stale wafer things with pretty faces taped on were meant to be. So, Celine. The strwong female character who did nothing more but bemoan the "sheer arrogance" of the opposite gender and wilfully stew in an unending cesspit of guilt and indignation and the mutinous resentments of nineteenth-century "feminism". Which wouldn't have annoyed me so if it wasn't for the author laying out those feelings for us every five minutes. Not to mention the nauseous amount of flip-flopping around this girl did like a wet dying fish, for how often she changed her goddarn mind. And we get it already, Celine was not a "proper young woman" because, yes, she "lifted her chin" (I swear, if I had a penny for every time I read this) and actually kept direct eye contact with another person—the sheer nerve of that girl, indeed!Oh, and how could I forget Bastien-slash-Lucifer-slash-Beautiful-Devil-slash-very-subtle-apostrophe-I-Am-a-Bad-Boy-apostrophe?(Yeah, no.)DNF at 50%. 1.5/5