2 StarsI'm kind of torn on what I want to rate this and how I want to review it. On one hand, I definitely found myself flying through the pages and being very interested in how things would play out...but on the other hand, I was also left with this feeling of unfulfilled satisfaction the whole time I was reading it. But let's back up a little bit. When I learned about this book, I was excited. This was my first Ahdieh book (although I have a couple of hers sitting on my shelf waiting to be read) and I have heard nothing but good things about her writing. Also, vampires in 19th century New Orleans...very Anne Rice and all that jazz. I think a lot of people of a certain age (aka those who were teens when Twilight came out) have this erroneous belief that Twilight was the first big vampire book series to ever hit the stands. However, vamp stories have been around forEVER. During my teenage years, it was Anne Rice, Christopher Pike, Christine Feehan...adult, YA (before it was really called that), and romance...all there for the devouring. And devour I did. Did I read and enjoy Twilight too when it came out? Sure. But one of the unfortunate effects of the success of Twilight was the sudden over-saturation of the reading world of all things vampiric. Suddenly, everyone wanted to write about vampires. Especially romance and YA authors. Everyone wanted to be the next Stephanie Meyer in much the same way that so many have tried to replicate the success of Harry Potter. And, after any period of TOO much of anything, the pendulum always swings the other way. Meaning, it suddenly felt like authors were avoiding the vampire trope like the plague. And all we readers got to cleanse our palette a bit. So when this book was announced, it kind of felt like it represented the next coming of solid vamp stories, I suppose. Or maybe all of that is just my opinion and completely baseless. Either way, I was really looking forward to reading this and even joined the Book of the Month YA box so I could get this thing for a $9.99 steal. And all I can say is...The New Orleans backdrop was somewhat well done, although there was also a lot of French that never gets translated for the reader. Also, the world-building left a lot to be desired. There is the Court of Lions, something called the Brotherhood, and another group called The Fallen...none of which truly ever get explained, even at the end. None of the characters are fully fleshed out and the main romance is like a tree with pretty leaves - but no actual root system. Much like the writing. It's like Ahdieh is trying for purple prose (which I loathe by the way) but merely succeeds in sprinkling overwrought metaphors and similes that stand out like sore thumbs throughout a book already plagued by too many flowery scene descriptions (that don't actually describe much, by the way) and really poor character building. But most of all, I just didn't like Celine, our main character. I think she was supposed to come across as a sassy, strong woman who just wanted respect and equality as a female...but for me she merely came across as a whiny brat who bemoaned the horror and unfairness of being treated as a beautiful piece of meat with no brain (edited: and no I am obviously not talking about the attempted sexual assault she suffered here, snowflakes, I am talking about other references)...but would then turn around and try to use said beauty and wiles to get her way. It felt hypocritical and I didn't like or respect her as a result. In general, I just thought many things about this story were murky and convoluted. The world-building, the characters, their motivations...everything. You can definitely tell this is all meant to unfold over the course of a series. And Ahdieh seemingly wrote this in such a way as to hold enough back to keep us coming back for more. In my opinion, she just simply held back a little too much.