I have heard a lot about this book- reviews ranging from "amazing" to a rip-off of Twilight, any way continuing with this tragic epic tale in which I have lost brain cells and I am warning you that what you read ahead is not for the easily offended as it does contain a lot of rage, incoherence and strong language: Anyway, like most typical, shitty YA novels- it starts off with a boring, emo girl who is a ~speshul snowflake (because we are severely lacking some of these in the YA genre, of course) angsting on about the curse of her powers! “Oh how horrible it is to know that my powers actually make it obvious about what people are thinking about me even though I am such a dumb bitch that I am not able to tell that if some bastard is stalking me; I should really call the police because it is classified as creepy.” And of course how she went from an amazing blonde cheerleader with the perfect boyfriend. So perfect that she was oblivious to everything around her since no-one existed except for the people that were involved in her perfect life. Until one night, her family are killed in a car crash but only she survives, saved by an unknown stranger who you already know who the fuck it is and she gains some fucking magical powers which is useless and stupid just like everything else in this stupid book. She seems to think that her family’s death is her fault yet she lives in a big house with a Jacuzzi, pool and the luxury life - OH HOW WOE-FUL! Also she listens to the Sex Pistols because her taste in music is so ~fetch and she has the Goth friend called Haven and the stereotypical gay guy friend called Miles.Oh should I also mention that her name is Ever Bloom (because she needs a unique, special name damn you! Even if it does make her seem like Orlando Bloom’s long lost sister or maybe hint that her parents were avid gardeners). Continuing on with this epic tale of fuckery, in Ever’s English class (English? I thought this was a Twilight rip-off therefore set in a Biology class, is Noel for the first time not following a cliché?), the new boy sits next to her, obviously! How dare a fugly motherfucker sit next to Ever dearest? Meet Damen Auguste- your typical; run of the mill boring, basic asshole who is good at everything… Apparently Damen is quite the hot shit- causing one dimensional characters and even the token gay guy and Goth “all squealing over him” because all high school students are the equivalent of pigs. Then when she stops PMSing and wangsting- Ever finally catches the sight of Damen, who apparently is so fucking good-looking that she stands there like some toad and describes him with so much thesaurus rape and purple prose that it gives me a migraine. Damen Auguste- how can I describe him? He could beat Edward Cullen in Mr. Gary Stu contest without batting an eyelash- apparently he was best friends with Emily Bronte, Shakespeare & other important figures of Western culture and just when you thought he couldn’t be more of a sue than he all ready was- HE CAN PAINT PICASSO BETTER THAN PICASSO HIMSELF!But then Ever gets all jealous and hurt because he flirts with a typical bitchy Barbie that you usually get from Southern California, because Alyson Noel bases it ALL on stereotypes, and that she isn’t the one who he gives a white rose to but a ~plain tulip. Honestly? Is she this much of an attention whore? Jealous of a guy who isn’t even her boyfriend? I cannot believe that every single fucking YA heroine needs a man in order to make themselves hold their shit together? I am seriously disgusted. Additionally, have you noticed how I am rarely talking about the plot? Oh yeah, silly me, there is no plot:- after all the stalking, falling in love lust with each other, and a whole load of bullshit we realise that their relationship is in danger (by relationship I mean getting each other laid) because his evil, crazy ex is back from his past life is hell-bent on ruining their epic tale of luuurrvveee… I hated the characters. Ever had no personality, merely a shell so the reader can easily fill her shoes and orgasm over the asshole that is Damen Auguste, she is a huge Mary Sue and her powers contributed nothing to the storyline and was hardly mentioned, therefore I don’t understand why Noel had to give her powers… Oh wait… Ever has to be super speshul! Also, I completely hated the fact that every single character in this book is a walking, breathing stereotype- Haven being the typical Goth who is shallow, being such a good friend that she gets pissed off at Ever for stealing Damen, then goes off with strangers and get’s herself in a whole load of shit. I couldn’t sympathise with her at all, it doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out not go with people who you are not familiar with. Ever heard of stranger danger? Never mind, none of the characters has any form on intellect in this book.Miles- again it seems apparent that Noel has never met the gay community so she bases it off stereotypes- his gay characterization was done horribly wrong, so badly done that if he met KURT Hummel- he would have been bitchslapped. Damen Auguste- he is a complete sissy and an assholian dickhead, first of all: he is a complete cocktease with the amount of times he flirts with Ever (with all those fucking tulips- I AM LED TO BELIEVE HE HAS SOME SORT OF FLOWER FETISH) then cuts her off. He is a terrible boyfriend: lying to her, and then dumping her ass like a million times on her own (and being the dumb bitch that she is, she runs back to him) then apologizing with stupid, cheesy fucking lines that should belong in a Harlequin novel. Also, if some guy, I don’t care how good-looking (even if he does look like Ian Somerhalder)- comes into my room, reads my thoughts and keeps on telling me that we belong together- I’d get a fucking restraining order on him and get him deported. Every other character? No personality, useless, boring etc… Hell, even the villainess was a huge yawn. The writing wasn’t anything special- I felt that Noel didn’t do much to explain, plus the mythology was terrible. Damen is not even a vampire (even though he doesn’t eat anything, but does drink some red liquid and drink her friend’s blood- how silly of Ever to come to that conclusion!) along with the re-incarnation crap. Don’t read this book unless you desperately want migraine inducing material. I honestly felt each of my braincells dying one by one.