When I first saw this book I was really excited because well, I really liked the cover. It is truly a beautifully done cover. So I read the description provided, and thought I might actually like this book, so I also entered the First Reads Giveaway and was totally shocked when I was chosen to receive the book. Now that the book has been received and read it’s time for me to write my review. I will not lie even when I read the description at first I was put off by the name of Leading lady, I mean really Ever and then her sister had such a normal name Riley, IMO it would have not been so off setting if maybe the sister was given the name Haven and the BFF was given the name Riley so that way the parents stayed solid in the realm of giving weird names. Now see here’s my big problem I liked the book enough to read it all in one sitting. I started reading at 2:00 AM and read till it was done at 7:00 AM. Yet I couldn’t honestly tell you what it was that kept me hooked because while I was reading I kept finding all the things that I didn’t like, didn’t understand, and wondered how the pooh it ended up like this. Maybe it was that I wanted to see her share her tragic past with him or anyone for that matter to see her actually open up and deal. I also ended the book knowing without a doubt that I wouldn’t be reading any other stories that were about Ever or even may mention Ever in passing. So that is a no go on reading the sequel book called Blue Moon. I usually don’t like the beginning of books like the first two chapters or so because they usually bore me but I really liked the beginning of this book and felt it held a lot of promise then sadly as it got the part where the extremely hot guy aka Damen showed up and everyone swooned even Miles (who by the way was probably my favorite character) it started to go down hill for me. Really though it was when started actually talking to Ever and showing her special attention and when they became boyfriend and girlfriend because they talked for a minute and kissed like it was 6th grade (yeah that annoyed me). Also he kept disappearing and well coming off as a player and jerk face. Now normally that doesn’t bother me because the leading male will usually grow up and develop through the book but for some reason the way this was written just struck me the wrong way. There was also the whole bedroom and Aunt thing, the bedroom first of all was way over the top, and the aunt just leaving her like that after all that had happened, I mean just leaving her to own devices, I would be terrified that the girl would do something really stupid and just be around even if she didn’t want to talk would make me feel like I as at least trying to keep her safe and feel safe. I also didn’t like how stubborn and seemingly out of character stupid Ever had been near the end either, I mean I kind of pick up on the fact she had to mature rather quickly after the accident, and she didn’t seem like, well, like an idiot who won't at least listen or hear someone out. I mean she just tossed out all logic and brain function when she found Haven at Damen’s house. I also didn’t like how purposely almost to the point of way over doing it rather than just plain over doing it, Damen was at being vague and secretive. I am sure it was meant to be intriguing and appealing with what most would call being mysterious. But for me I found it tiresome that every five minutes Ever was angry with Damen and he was begging her forgiveness and making up some other random lie. Lastly the whole explanation given for his existence just really didn’t set well with me either and I found myself struggling not to skip all of it and just read the last page and be done. I wanted so badly to reach through the book and rewrite what was going on in front me. I was however impressed with the fact that Damen wasn’t and Vampire and that he was a fresh face to an issue of immortality. I also appreciated how Ever needed to think and that she wasn’t instantly on board with living forever. I know this book is a young adult book and a lot of times when I read YA books I will walk away with one of two feelings that either it was too much of a YA book or this maybe shouldn’t have been labeled just a YA book. This book was way too much of a YA book, it started off with such promise and throughout the remainder of the book it lost its luster that grabbed me in the beginning.