I am always a slut for these genres, I grew up reading mostly vampire and werewolf books and have come to read an extensive variety of it (on Wattpad you bet). But I think we can really count how many remarkable vampires and werewolves book we have out there. So when I know this book is publishing, you can only expect the excitement building in me. Not to say they have this wonderful cover that definitely piques my interest. I think this book fits between paranormal and historical fiction, summarising fantasy romance. And since the whole vampire fiasco starts in the 80s, it is only expected on the flowery romance language which can be appealing (or not). I like it, but unfortunately, mademoiselle and monsieur, I don't speak French.. or Spanish. Therefore, a few translation would help. Although it did not really affect you in understanding the whole plot, I think some of the phrases I translated helped me to answer my supposition of the other characters, like Bastien's cousins who referred to him as  son  so I figured them to be somewhat older than him. Alas, that dwindles the wholesomeness of the story because I was puzzled and curious about what they were saying but have no energy in me to open Google Translate every time I encounter one of the phrases. Secondly, if you prefer a fast pace book, you wouldn't get it in this book. The story goes very slow but I think it still manages to make it intriguing for readers to continue to know what happens next. And the cliffhanger at the end? That really tempts readers to pick up the forthcoming sequel! I love Celine and Bastien dynamic so much. They both have their own strength as a character that I dote on; which is the only right recipe for the couple to come up with a great romance. The author also offered diverse characters which made me enjoy this book comparatively. I like it because everyone is so different, you definitely wouldn't be sent to sleep.It also gets a bit angst to me towards the end and I kind of can expect the course and the upcoming conflict for the next book, so am really really excited! Faith in this genre is restored!