"Sometimes a girl must make her own magic"When this book was first announced I was above the moon excited, could not wait a single second, counting down the days until its release. Then, early reviews started trickling in- a large proportion of them negative, and I started to have some doubts. I had read The Wrath and the Dawn duology and the Flame and the Mist by Renee Ahdieh- and not given any of the over 3 stars. Scared that this would let me down, I decided to wait until the hype died down a bit. Now, about seven months later I have finally read this- and am regretting waiting this long! The Beautiful feels like a book written for me, it so perfectly captures everything I love in. From the French influences, to dressmaking, to the aesthetics, to- of course- the vampires. I was enamoured from the first chapter. A major complaint I have heard about this book is its slow pace. I can see why some people would find it as such, but to me that just kept me wanting to find out more. I loved the slow burn of the plot and romance, so it definitely didn't deter from my experience. the writingAfter not loving any of this author's backlist I was a little worried about how I would fare when it comes to the writing style. I think Renee Ahdieh has grown significantly as an author since those, which I personally found to be slightly try hard and overly flowery in terms of the writing. The Beautiful was just the perfect amount of description and exposition for me. “It's easy to lose sight of what's real when you're lost in the stars.” the atmosphereThe atmosphere and aesthetics may have been my favourite part about the whole book. I love stories where the setting is so well described that you feel as if you are there, and this one definitely delivered. I have never been to New Orleans, nor have I lived in the midst of the 1800's, but I felt like I had while reading this. For readers who are more plot driven and don't necessarily need a well developed world to enjoy a story I can see how that could come across as boring, but I adored it. the plotIn terms of the actual storyline, I found it engaging. I enjoyed the mystery element of who the killer is, and it kept me guessing. I thought I had it all figured out about halfway through, but I never saw it coming. That being said, I did find the ending slightly underwhelming, but won't get into it due to spoilers. the charactersI found all of the characters likeable to some extent, and I found them a huge upgrade from the typical protagonists from early 2000s paranormal romances. Our main character, Celine had agency and was strong in a realistic way for that time period. I also unsurprisingly loved Bastien. I don't think I will ever get tired of the bad boy, slightly damaged character. Finally, I cannot talk about the characters without mentioning the one, the only, the iconic Odette. As soon as she was introduced I thought she was such an interesting and complex character that I cannot wait to hopefully discover more about in The Damned. "why must we wear corsets even while we eat?""Because men enjoy keeping us in cages at every waking hour. That way we're contained. They're afraid of what would happen if we were free"the verdictoverall, I had such a good experience reading The Beautiful and cannot wait to see how the story progresses in the sequel. I can understand some of the criticisms leveraged against this book, but I think knowing before I went into it to lower my expectations slightly was beneficial. If you haven't read this yet and are interested, I would recommend it keeping in mind that this is a slow burn story and not to expect too much action.