Re-read 20154 starsYep. I knocked off a star after I did a re-read.Why?You know, when I originally read this, I'd mostly just drooled all over the book in my haste to find out if any of my theories were right.I'd also not been exposed to Iced, so I didn't know that Moning was capable of writing a total turd.There were three main things that stood out to me this time around, that I overlooked hadn't noticed the first time.One, the pace was a bit too frenetic. I almost can't tell you what happened in the book, because Too Much Happened. This would have almost been better off as two books.Does that make sense?Not a deal-breaker for me, though.So...Two, Dani is a HORRIBLE character with no redeeming qualities. Yeah, I know she got on my nerves when I originally read the story, but that was before Iced, so I had no idea that Moning had such a gaping blind-spot where she was concerned.Every time I had to read that STUPID Dani Daily report, it was like someone raking their nails down a chalkboard. KILL HER! KILL HER WITH FIRE!!!!! Third thing that brought the rating down was the annoyingly juvenile OVER-use of acronyms.Sure, I get that Mac loves to give things goofy acronyms. OOPS, IFP, etc..It's sort of her thing, and I didn't have a serious problem with her doing it occasionally.Occasionally.But.Eventually, my nerves wore thin.I think I finally snapped when Mac called the 'Dreamy Eyed Guy' DEG, and he called her BG...which stands for Beautiful Girl. What?!Nobody does that! Nobody!That is so stupid, I don't even have words for it...FAIL! Still, this was an awesome ending to the original Fever series, and I'd recommend these to anyone who loves a good urban fantasy.Besides, you know this had to be good if even Dani can't kill my love for it!Original (long-winded and spoilery) 5 star review: 2011I read this a couple of days ago, but I was mentally waffling on the rating, so I decided to let my review ride until I could decide. Well, I've finally come to a decision (I know you all were just dying to find out how I felt...don't even try to deny it), so here comes the review.After I first finished it, I wasn't sure exactly how I felt (I already said that, didn't I?). Toward the end of the book, it seemed like I was getting whiplash from all of the twists and turns the plot was taking. Red herrings were everywhere! Too much! Too much! So, in my infinite wisdom, I wondered if I shouldn't knock off a star just because Ms. Moning annoyed me a teeny bit with all of her wacky antics.However, after I thought about it, I realized something.  I am an idiot, and any infinite wisdom that may be floating around out there certainly doesn't belong to me! This book was the most fun I've had reading in ages! Ages! Was I really considering knocking a star off just because it was too exciting? I disgust myself. So, 5 stars for Shadowfever! Now let's get on with the spoilers!Dani, Dani, Dani. Did Dani's POV get on my feckin nerves? Uh, yeah. Let's hope if Ms. Moning continues in this world with Dani's story, it happens once she is older. Much older. As in, less feckin' young. Feckin' feckers. Feck. Second verse, same as the first! Feckity-feck! Ugh. (In case you haven't read the book yet, Dani uses the word feck...occasionally.)Alright, enough picking on Dani.Bring on the Barrons! *You may each take a minute here to reflect and drool on the great Jericho Barrons* Was that whole skin rippling during sex thing kinda icky? Absolutely. I thought Barrons bordered on disturbing for the entire book. Do I still love him? Oh, yeah! Bring your ripply monster-self over this way, honey! Grrrowr! So, he's got freaky horns and pisses circles around you to show you that he cares? I can deal with that. Why? 'Cause it's Barrons, that's why!Does it bother me that (after all of this time) we don't get to find out what Barrons is? Noooo. I, for one, am not the least bit disappointed. Really. *sigh* Ok. Maybe just a little bit. Or a lot. But, after I thought about it, I realized that one of the things that makes Barrons so darn sexy is that he's mysterious. I think Ms. Moning was right not to ruin the mystery...but that doesn't mean I have to like it!And what about that creepy feral kid of his? Holy Guacamole! I did not see that one coming! All this time I've been wondering what the hell was in his basement, and never once did the words rabid child run through my mind. Never. I was glad at the end that they were able to put him down...I mean, lay him to rest.Vlane, you skeevy bastard, I never liked you! And to think that I was actually feeling sorry for him after he asked Mac to choose between Barrons and himself! Gah! I always thought of Vlane as some idiot fairy prince who was just kind of thrown in there to give the plot a love triangle. Who woulda thunk it?! I felt like Karen (after 5 books, I can call her Karen, right?) jumped out at me at the end of this book and yelled, "Gotcha, bitch!". I guess anybody who bought a Team Vlane t-shirt is feeling a teensy bit silly, eh?Darroc's demise was another Whoa! moment for me. I mean, one minute he's there, and I'm all worried about whether or not Mac can outwit him, and the next minute...He has no head! Mwhahahaha! Pure awesomeness!Now Rowena's death? Meh. I'm glad Mac got to be the one to run her skanky old ass through, but, honestly, I wanted her to suffer more. Really suffer. After all, she was the whole reason that Dani was involved in Alina's death! Poor Dani. Poor annoying Dani.Love that we got to find out who the Dreamy Eyed Guy was! Also, nice to see Christian again. One of the best parts of the book was when Barrons had a mini-stroke because Mac couldn't take her eyes off of Christian's giant man-muscle! That was classic! Move over Jane Austin! Kidding. *whispers*You know nobody can ever replace you, Mr. Darcy.I was happy (and yet, surprised) to see the Unseelie King and his concubine get their Happily Ever After, too! He turned out to be quite the lovable character, didn't he? Last, but certainly not least, Mac. We finally get to find out what makes her so darn special! Again, the truth in no way even slightly resembled anything that I had come up with. And, believe me, I had come up with some wacky shit over the past year. Why, you ask, could I not figure it out? Because Karen likes to give out Agatha Christie-like clues! Clues, that nobody besides the amazing Miss Marple, could piece together! Come on, be honest, did anyone out there figure this out? Anybody? Anybody?On a sad note, I can't believe it's over. *sob* So, if anyone has any recommendation on what to read next, please send them my way!