A solid Urban Fantasy novel: fairly engaging with some attempts at novelty, it didn't ultimately root itself in my brain as overly outstanding.Here's the gist:Ivy Gamble had to be content with a life without magic. Her sister Tabitha, though, has always been a natural. Their paths diverged ages ago, with more than a few hard feelings. When the magic school that Tabitha teaches at experiences a suspicious death, they reach out to Ivy – a private detective – to try to determine what happened. Now Ivy must immerse herself in the world she never got to be a part of, face her sister, and solve a potential murder.If I say Magic for Liars isn't memorable, it isn't because the book is bad; in fact, some narrative choices were quite clever. I thought it was a unique approach that the magical parts of the world weren't filled with whimsy and automatic superiority. Osthorne Academy looks like any other high school, and it mostly struggles with the same sorts of problems. There is no epic evil bad guy steepling his fingers in a tower somewhere. The magic is interesting and, like science, still in its relative infancy in terms of our understanding of it. There was an awful lot I wanted to hear more about, and I think Gailey laid themself a creative foundation.As a schtick, though, I think the author leaned too hard on the mundane. Because we make so much effort to see magic as just another normal thing that's going on in the world, when a more traditional element of the genre is introduced – a prophecy – it seems out of place and almost ludicrous. We spend a lot of time in Ivy's head with her emotions, and her resentment-lament seems stuck on repeat. How much this affects her every moment is overpowering, too sharply in focus. This more than anything else dragged down the book for me. At first I appreciated the human interest approach, but the one-track repetitiveness ended up feeling like it was taking the spotlight from more interesting aspects of the story.While I found that the mystery was a bit thin, I really wanted to get involved in it, and all the bones were there for it to have fleshed out nicely. But Ivy didn't really get much of a chance to show much of her “normal people' skills, and the whole thrust of the puzzle felt over too soon.TL;DR The good and the bad balanced out, for me, but I was left with a washed out impression.