Magic For Liars may be set at a school of magic, but we're on notice from the very first page that this is not THAT kind of school:Now they were all downstairs at the welcome-back dinner, an all-staff-all-students meal that marked the end of the first week of classes. They'd joke there about house-elves and pumpkin juice -- or at least the freshmen would. By the time they were sophomores, that vein of humor was worn beyond use.After a bloody murder at Osthorne Academy for Young Mages (located in the vicinity of Sunol, California -- less than an hour's drive from San Francisco or Oakland), private investigator Ivy Gamble is called in to help solve the case. Magical authorities have deemed it an accidental death due to a spell gone bad, but the school's headmaster thinks there's more to be discovered... and since Ivy is the non-magical twin sister of a professor at the school, she seems to be the right choice to lead the investigation.The assignment at Osthorne is fraught with tension and high emotional stakes for Ivy. She and sister Tabitha have been estranged for years, really since Tabitha was selected to go to an elite magic school when they were teens. Their paths diverged sharply from that point onward, and the two have never managed to reconnect, especially in the aftermath of their mother's death while Tabitha was away at school.Now arriving at Osthorne, Ivy sets out to solve the murder while also trying to understand who Tabitha is now, and who she herself might have been if she'd had magic too. Ivy's journey is painful to witness, as she drinks herself through her tumultuous feelings every night and lets herself become consumed by the mysterious death and the suspicious undercurrents at the schoolI love Sarah Gailey's writing -- I loved it in the American Hippo books, and she's totally on point here as well, conveying the otherworldliness of the magical world while rooting it in a grim and grimy reality that has more than a shade of noir to it. What magical school doesn't have a library with weird and dangerous sections? Here at Osthorne, Ivy hears:... the books murmuring to each other like a scandalized congregation of origami Presbyterians.Isn't that delicious?Some other choice bits:Across the bay, San Francisco bled money like an unzipped artery..... andThe drive through the Sunol hills was as beautiful as the novocaine that comes before the drill.Certain magic school tropes makes appearances too -- there's a Prophecy and a Chosen One, for starters, as well as the more mundane clique of popular girls who flutter around the central Mean Girl and all sorts of relationship drama, both appropriate and not.The plot zooms along quickly, and sometimes reality can be a slippery thing. Ivy's investigations are often clouded by the magical elements around her, but even so, she applies her skills and street smarts to get to the shocking truth. The resolution is pitch-perfect, and even though I guessed at the outcome ahead of time, that did not detract at all from the impact and the shock when the answers are finally revealed.Magic For Liars is, plain and simple, a terrific read. Don't miss it!Review copy courtesy of the publisher via NetGalley. Full review at Bookshelf Fantasies.