The rating would have been 2 stars higher if it had been a stand-alone with a proper conclusion instead of a rushed cliff-hanger and a confused protagonist. I don't feel like writing a proper review. Let's settle on why I did not rate it with 3 stars like I had expected around the first half of the book. 1. The protagonist did not work for me. Like, at all. I get that she had a shitty life, I get that she is full of doubts and fears and repressed emotions, but usually when thrown into a challenging situation one either breaks or changes. Someway neither happened. Instead Amy continued to be her prior indecisive and defensive self and did not act unless pushed. Which leads me to the next point, the constant pushing. I was annoyed around the second half of the book. In the first half Amy has to get used to Oz, I get it. But the second? Nope. Also, the clinging to the past was beyond annoying, Amy kept doing something I hated over and over again until I wanted to strangle her.All in all, Amy seemed like an awful protagonist to me who was controlled by everyone and everything but not by herself. 2. The pace of the book. After finishing it and looking up how many books are to follow I understood why the author wrote it this way, but understanding was all I did. Fistly, it was slow. Much too slow. There was no action, there was no tension, instead the book felt like a steady flow to me, no rising and no falling. Which is a bad thing. For over hundred pages nothing happened. At. All. There was Amy struggling with Oz and its inhabitants and pages and pages of pointless, meaningless dialogue, but nothing else happened. Yeah, the pace was horrendous. This usually goes hand in hand with a lack of atmosphere for me. Oz, the dark version of it, was described but not shown. Usually, I put up with it, but in this case I was displeased. I picked this book up hoping to get suck into a dark, gloomy world and found myself in a cheap attempt to copy Neil Gaiman. Not good. Can you imagine a small pace with a complete lack of atmosphere? It does not sound very interesting, does it? 3. The dialogues, the world-building and the "plan". Okay, no spoilers here, but the solution of "the problem" was so terrible in my opinion that I nearly laughed. Plot twists?? Nope, not here. Surprises?? Sorry to disappoint.Not only was it stupid, but it was boring and painfully predictable. As was the outcome, really. And as I have already mentioned, most dialogues were meaningless and served as page-fillers. But that's just my opinion. Finally, the world-building. Or the lack thereof. Thanks to the dialogues and Amy's never-ending inner struggles and doubts the reader didn't get to see much of Oz, and in the cases Amy bothered with the world she was in she described it in about two sentences before going back to her approximately five thousand problems. I have never liked the original tale, to be honest. And I did not like this retelling either. Not recommended.