3.5 stars!I fell in love with this world and its characters. Historic London-type vibes, murder mysteries, witches in hiding, a queer love story, and a massive world-ending plot twist?? Y'all.Pacing: ★★ 1/2World: ★★★★★Enjoyment: ★★★★Miles Singer is trying to hide the fact that he's a witch. In Aeland, a realm that feels like an alternate Edwardian London, being a witch means a one-way ticket to an asylum. Or in Miles' case, a one-way ticket to eternal servitude to his rich family. (Because the rich obviously treat their own witches differently. Rich people are the same no matter the world...)Toiling away in a veterans hospital, Miles tries to keep a low profile. Because not only is he a witch in hiding--he's also hiding his true identity and avoiding his family. As plans go, it's semi-working. Miles is getting by. But then a dying witch shows up at the hospital in the arms of a handsome stranger. The dying man gives his power to Miles, accuses an attacker of murdering him, and also hints at some huge issues with Aeland's current government and the "true" purpose of the war. He begs Miles to find out the truth. He calls out to Miles' duty as a fellow witch and binds him with mutual magic. And all of this happens in front of the handsome stranger. Who may or may not be extremely interested in this turn of events. With some clever blackmail at play, the stranger and Miles embark on a detective adventure with very, very high stakes. Will Miles find out the truth before his past catches up to him? Wow, was this a fun story! For having been on my radar for a while, I was shocked at just how much of this novel took me by complete surprise. Witches, historic vibes, a murder mystery, a gay romance, and family angst?? This was so much fun. I absolutely fell in love with the world and its characters. However. I need to say something about the pacing. The first half was slowwwwww. Too slow. Confusingly slow. In an effort to ease us into the world and provide a "cozy mystery" type atmosphere, we lost a lot of plot momentum. I had to struggle to stay engaged while waiting for the plot to kick off. BUT, once it takes off, this novel runs! So the issue resolved itself.Overall, great read. If the blurb even mildly interests you, check this out. You will not be disappointed. Blog | Instagram