I knew it wasn't a good idea to read this book because I was told this is similar to The Wrath and the Dawn and *surprise* I wasn't a fan of that duology. Reading this book felt like waiting for math class to just fuckign end. I couldn't wait to get this book over. I was literally counting down the pages till this fucking ended. I. JUST. WANTED. THIS. TO. END. I finally learned true human suffering. This actually wasn't that bad in the beginning except for Mariko's constant repetition of "I am brave and I won't be weak" like every two pages and the fact that the plot and romance were utter shit.If I can go back in time to stop myself from reading, Iwould, in a heartbeat because ew, this was horrible. ※So what is this book about???Mariko is a daughter of a samurai who is betrothed to the emperors son. While traveling to meet him, her carriage is attacked and everyone is killed by The Black Clan. But she survives!!!!! wow, oh my god!!! Instead of going to back to her family, she decides to disguise herself as a boy and hunt the Black Clan to plot her revenge and earn her honor!!Sounds like a great idea!!!! If only it stayed as an amazing idea and not destroyed by being published in the form of this book!!!!●First of all my dudes, Mariko was just fucking annoying. I get she wants to show her mama raised no coward, but like???? constantly repeating that shit for the first 50 or something pages, gets really annoying.Hmmmm here's something wild, shut the fuck your mouth, glue that shit shut my dude, and actually do something that proves your bravery!!!※Is the Black Clan supposed to be terrifying and "so bad" enough to make me piss my pants because ummmmm, I felt like I was reading about little kids trying to play warrior. They didn't come off as dangerous thieves to me. The Black Clan is perfectly summed up in this gif:※The plot was extremely slow and boring. I think it's because all that happens in this book is Mariko spying on The Black Clan and nothing actually happening until the last 10% of this book. I literally feel like I sat through math class where I'm staring at the bored and learning fucking nothing and should've just skipped that class because,, what's the point?? ※I actually ended up liking Mariko a bit after she shut up about not being a coward, but then I wanted to choke her when she fell in lurveeee.????????You said you won't let love stop you and I was promised you'd be a badass who won't melt for some dick, but???? the fuck, I'm suing for false advertisement because I got the opposite of what I expected!!!She was supposed to slaughter the Black Clan, not fall in love with its leaders best friend and have a change of plans!!!!I'm sorry, but what the actual fuck?And,,, this shit brings me to the romance. *gags*:You know that moment when your alarm wakes you up 6:30 a.m in the morning, but you decide to rest your eyes for a few more minutes and then, you wake up and it's 2069 and the aliens are attacking planet earth. Guys, legit, I'm flipping through the pages of this book I'm reading the book and then all of a sudden they're kissing and wanting to fuck and I just cringe back, like, um yikes I liked it better when you wanted to murder Wolf boy. Did I miss something, like did my eyes get momentarily hacked or some shit because bro, HOW IS THIS HAPPENING???????The romance just blossomed out of nowhere???? I'm????? so confused???? And it's not even the kind you want to ship, I want this romance to die because it's fucking cringe. Overall, I'm not impressed and just want my time back that was spent reading this trash.And a 10000000x better book about Japanese mythology is definitely Red Winter. I totally recommend that book over this!!!!