”Death follows indecision, like a twisted shadow.”As it seems 2019 has officially become the year of retellings for me! And tell you what? I actually seem to like them! *lol* I never thought that I would enjoy retellings so much, but either I made really great book decisions this year or I picked the wrong retellings before. XD There’s no way to tell which one it might be but either way it’s a win-win situation for me. ;-)”You’re the devil, Ōkami,” he muttered harshly. The ghost boy eyed him askance. “You would know.” A grin curled up one side of his face, rendering the scar through his lips white. “Since we both came from hell.”This said let’s get to the book now! I always loved Mulan and so it’s no surprise I instantly liked our heroine Mariko. I mean yes, she makes really stupid decisions sometimes but in general I could relate to her. I'm convinced we all make mistakes every now and then and she’s not only a very young but also a sheltered girl. Before her convoy got attacked she barely even saw the outside world and now that she’s forced to stay with the Black Clan it’s like she sees the real world for the very first time. Not everything is as white and black as everyone made her believe and even her own family shows a very different face if you see it from another perspective. Mariko breathed deep. “Am I prisoner, or am I a servant?”Ōkami paused before responding. “We choose what we are in any situation, be it a word or an idea.” With a small smile, he walked away.And here are the discussions between Ōkami and Mariko I started to love. *lol* Those two are so very different but they work somehow. At first I wasn’t entirely sure who was supposed to be her love interest because honestly, Ranmaru had me intrigued from the very first moment he appeared in the book! But the longer I continued to read, the more it became obvious who would end up with whom. ;-P I’ve to admit that I liked both male MCs but for some reason I kind of liked Ranmaru more. Haha! Don’t ask me why, I guess he just peaked my curiosity and I love a good mystery. *lol* Also the way he acted, so calm and composed… He got me thinking and that’s always a good sign! He’s every inch the leader and he does a good job of it as well. Still, I’ve to admit that Ōkami had a certain appeal too. XD”My life has been filled with death and lies and loose women.” Ōkami pushed back a fall of black hair, meeting her gaze. Holding her there. Rapt. “I regret everything else.” He smiled, his hooded, heavy-lidded eyes brimming with mockery.Ranmaru’s broad lips spread into an easy smile. “I believe the stars align so that souls can find one another. Whether they are meant to be souls in love or souls in life remains to be seen.”Seriously, those two boys couldn’t have been any more different but their friendship was amazing! They were like brothers and everyone who knows me; knows I love a good sibling rep! *lol* They might not have been family by blood but they certainly were in their hearts. ;-) Also I kind of enjoyed how everyone in the Black Clan was different and contributed a part to their community. Plus: Let’s not forget about the fantasy elements in here! The idea of the flesh eating trees gave me goose bumps and the forest that protected them was amazing! And if I’m already at it: I adored the ending!!! =)”It was a mistake. All of it. For as long as she’d known him, Mariko had despised the very idea of this boy. But the truth of him? The truth was not quite as simple. It was a silent entreaty. A wordless plea.”Conclusion:This was such a great retelling! I mean it didn’t feel like a Mulan retelling because Ahdieh made so much more out of it, the basic points however were definitely there. ;-) Mixed up with a slow burn love story and the magical element this tale really had me captivated! I loved it from the very first chapter and I continued to love it until the end! The ending though! There were quite a lot of things I expected but others hit me so hard that I can’t help but be in awe of Ahdieh’s skills. XD So if you’re looking for a fast and nice read, I can totally recommend this to you. ;-)__________________________What happens when a Slytherpuff and a Gryffindor (with Slytherin traits, Gryfferin?) decide to read a book together? Well, they buddy read “Flame in the Mist”! ;-PBecause Mulan is awesome and if this is truly some sort of retelling, I’m so here for it. So let’s do this and hopefully we’ll enjoy it! Buddy read with this awesome Slytherpuff! We’re sooo going to rock this! =)