This is my first book by Renee Ahdieh and it most certainly won't be my last. The writing is gorgeous, truly captivating me from start to finish. The feudal Japanese setting is fantastic and original. I have read very few books set in Japan, but I enjoyed this so much..I plan to fix that. The story is full of samurai, geisha, ronin, emperors, honor, secrets, and family. And even though at times the story was slower than I would've liked, I was enchanted through and through.I read this as a buddy read with Lauren. She writes strong, thoughtful reviews and has excellent taste in books. Check it out :)Mariko is on her way to Inako to marry the emperor's son when her litter gets attacked. If the Black Clan tried to kill her, then she'll be damned if she doesn't find out why and get her revenge. So Mariko is going to infiltrate the gang and do just that. Only problem is this is feudal Japan. Women don't have freedom. Cue the feminist parade! So Mariko disguises herself as a boy in order to successfully attempt her plan.We should probably be thinking oh Mariko is so smart. She is taking care of herself. Now she did have a couple badass moments, but these were so far and few between. We kept being told how smart she is. And I mean consistently by not only Mariko but her brother Kenshin as well. I still feel we never saw this.Kenshin desperately wants to find his sister and rescue her. He's an excellent samurai and tracker. He actually is a badass. The love he has for his sister runs deep, but he's also a ruthless individual who will do whatever it takes. I really enjoyed his complexity. Plus that sheer determination to find his sister. Would your brother do that for you? Mine for sure would not.I really loved a lot of the characters actually. Okami, Amaya, Yoshi. I guess it doesn't do you any good if I just list random character names. But trust me, they are wonderful. My least favorite was Mariko even though her journey is still engrossing. I am curious how the romance is going to develop. It just peaked it's head. It feels like a lot of this book was setting things up for the future. There is political intrigue that seems like it'll be of larger importance later in the series. The complex dynamic of the royal court was certainly interesting.I loved the use of Japanese mythology and history throughout. I cannot speak on how accurate these are because I am not quite as familiar with the culture or history. But it is all very fascinating and it added to the excellent world building. There are several unfamiliar Japanese terms used throughout. I really enjoyed them, though it would be helpful to know you can refer to the glossary at the back of the book. I used google for a while before I realized.I could have used a bit of explanation on the magic system. There didn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to it. It felt very random. All this aside, I actually thoroughly enjoyed the book. The writing was exquisite with incredible world building. I loved the feminist theme throughout! The characters were wonderful. The sequel has the potential to be even better.