Buddy read with Josh and Amber! You're probably thinking 'only 1 star?!'Look, I know how bad 1 star looks so hear me out. I wanted to like this book. However, I never enjoyed a single second of it. I tried really hard to get into it but I really just struggled. Josh and Amber were really enjoying it but I just couldn't give a shit about the entire book. I was bored in every single page that I read. I never liked anything in it except for 1-2 sentences of female empowerment. "I will not be bandied about by men any longer. I am not a prize to be bought or sold."The premise of this book sounds incredible and I'm sure it will be good for a lot of people but unfortunately it fell incredibly flat for me. Within 10% I knew this book was going to be a maximum of 3 stars. That is literally the worst sign ever. I go into a book prepared to give it a 4 star and a lot has to happen in order to change my mind. My interest faded throughout the whole book and I found myself skipping entire pages without even caring. Let's be real, I skim read a large portion of it. I wanted to dnf so hard but I was determined to power through it. We agreed to only read 10% a day for 10 days (even though I powered ahead because I was so done) and without that I would definitely have dnf'd this book. I wanted to give this book 2 stars but then I realised that would be a complete lie and it would be for the benefit of everyone else and not for me. For me personally, the story itself was boring. Bland. I didn't care for any characters and I honestly could not tell you a single characters name except for Mariko. That's how much of an impact this book had on me. I just didn't care for this book at all and it sucks. I can't even begin to tell you what happens in this book because honestly I wasn't paying attention. I tried so hard for 50% of this book to get into it but I couldn't so I gave up caring for the last 50%. I came into this book looking for a Mulan retelling and we did kind of get that. However, I spent every second going okay when do we get more of the Mulan stuff that I care about and less of whatever the hell this is. For me this book was just boring. It never captured my attention once and honestly that is just so disappointing. It had some random weird magic that wasn't needed and some instalove that I didn't care for at all. I'm really sad that I didn't like this book and I genuinely hope other people like this book way more than I did. Josh and Amber liked it way more than I did so I'd definitely recommend reading their reviews.I doubt I will be continuing on with this duology purely because I just don't give a shit? I'm thankful I got an eARC of this book purely because it meant I could cancel my preorder of this book because I don't want to waste my money on a book I didn't enjoy AT ALL. I'm sorry I didn't like this book guys!Obviously all thoughts are my own and the fact that I received an eARC did not impact my thoughts.