I am completely sold on this series. The characters, the intrigue, the brutality, the world-building; it's all exemplary. Off the charts. Sensational!Before They Are Hanged is the second book in Joe Abercrombie's series, The First Law. If you are unaware, the first three books in the series are a connected trilogy, while books four, five and six, are all standalone novels that take place in the same world.I have been intimidated for years by this series; by Abercrombie actually. Even though I had heard nothing but great things about his writing.I'm not quite sure what all that was about, but now that I have completed the first three books, I would count this as one of my favorite series ever. Yeah, it's that good.In this second book, I was super pumped about the fact that we were going on a quest. Bayez, the First of the Magi, gathers a group of traveling companions and they head out across the world in search of a mysterious ancient object.Quests are one of my favorite tropes. I love to go along for the danger and adventure of the road. This group, oh my goodness, they were ill-suited to one another at first, but as with many traveling groups before them, they eventually began to grow on one another.The quest is just one of the many story-lines going on in this installment, however, so there is plenty here for everyone. Even if you are a monster and a quest isn't your most favorite thing.Throughout I was continually impressed with the world creation. I was learning so much regarding the structure and functioning of this world, all while maintaining my high level of interest. It was in no way info-dumpy, or dull.The characters, as well, particularly our mains, are totally fleshed out. I have never loved such a brutal group of utter bastards more. I am seriously so attached to them; it's a wee bit concerning actually.The stakes were raised so high over the course of this narrative. I knew by the time I turned the final page, I needed to get my hands on the third book as quickly as possible.10 out of 10, recommend to all Epic Fantasy fans, Grimdark Fantasy fans and Heroic Fantasy fans. In short, Fantasy fans unite!!