Sam Vimes, the idealistic commander of the City Watch, hunts down the killer of several watchmen and follows him up to a rooftop in the middle of a magical storm. Suddenly they get struck by lightning, which catapults them both into the past. One of the first things the killer does after arrival is kill John Keel. History Monk Lu-Tze freezes time for Sam Vimes and explains to him that this is a major problem. Vimes idolized John Keel when they were in the Watch together. John Keel not only taught Vimes what it means to be a good copper, he is also responsible for Vimes’ firm belief in justice. Without John Keel, there would be no Sam Vimes. And John Keel was just killed, right before he was supposed to join the Watch and meet a young Vimes. The only way to save the present, is to recreate the past as best as possible. The only way to do that, is for Sam Vimes to assume the identity of John Keel and become the mentor of his own young self.The story basically shows us the impact one good mentor can have on the life of a person. It’s also just a very fascinating concept. As John Keel, Vimes' hero and former mentor, turns out to be Vimes himself from the future. This is so cool and also so absolutely brilliant.The character development is incredibly good. Sam Vimes is easily one of the best characters Pratchett ever created. So exploring his past is just a really good idea. He’s the most developed and most interesting protagonist in the Discworld series. He’s also a very fascinating character. His cynicism, streets smarts and his grasp of human nature clash so hard with his pure, idealistic thoughts. But it’s his idealistic nature that makes sure he will always try to do the right thing. Because deep down, he cares. He will always try to make the world a better place, no matter how much he doesn’t like the way the world works all around him.The Discworld series is of course known for its brilliant comedy. So it’s very interesting to note that there really isn’t much comedy to be found in this book. The serious and rather dark tone of this novel makes it stand out a lot from the other Discworld novels in all the right ways. It also makes the revolution this story revolves around feel much more grim, serious and important. It makes you pay attention. Because this story tries to send a very important message to us readers. And it’s clear Pratchett didn’t want to see his message get lost in between some good jokes.The Discworld’s City Watch books are some of the best books ever written. This is easily one of the best books in the series.