Here's a tricky one.Is this a good book? Yes, without a doubt. It takes a well-known character, three-dimensional and beloved by fans, and throws him back in time into a much darker and gloomier era out of which his present-day has thankfully moved on. It illuminates us on the backstories and youths of the recurring cast, introduces a few of whom we've heard of but never seen in action, and then throws in it some completely new characters - some of the darkest and most hateable villains seen in the series, and that's saying something. It's some tense, frightful, gripping stuff: you don't know how it will turn out and you'll genuinely fear for your favourites. In a vacuum, this is one of my favourite novels in the series - certainly in the top five.But is it a good Discworld book? Ehh...Really, it depends on what you think "Discworld" means - what the series stands for. It's been doing great many things over the decades, according to the interests and whims of its creator Terry Pratchett (mayherestinpeace); it started out as a straight-up fantasy parody that didn't even try to take anything seriously, but quickly grew into its own thing, a weird and irreverent realm of wonder that was never short of laughs but could get dramatic and thoughtful when it wanted. It may be that you think Night Watch - and what comes after that - still fits just fine into the setting and that nothing is fundamentally wrong with the direction the later books took.But I, personally, always thought that the humour was an essential foundation stone of the series. However serious things could be from time to time, it always snapped back into comedy and levity and a great joke or two. Whenever I think of Discworld now, "comedy fantasy" is how I define it.But the scale kept on gradually shifting as the series went on: you had less of the comedy and more of the drama, as if the foundation stone was being chipped away. Night Watch was where the scale tipped over for me.This was the first Discworld book that I recall not being funny at all. Not that it didn't have a few jokes, still, but those jokes all had a certain edge to them: all the gloom of tyranny and revolt and civil warfare enveloped them far more thoroughly than anything else that had come before now. And it didn't get any better afterwards: later books concerned themselves with warfare and gender equality, con men and frauds, racism and slavery and terrorism, faith and higher truths, lynch mobs and even teen miscarriage - some of these had come up earlier, true, but never nearly so solemnly and seriously.Comedy and parody shifted away into satire. And Terry, I'm so sorry to say this, never really handled satire all that well. He was quite unsubtle about it and always made sure his readers knew exactly what he thought of a subject and what, in his opinion, was the Right Thing. At worst, once so beloved three-dimensional characters devolved into mouthpieces. I'm not even saying that he was wrong - if anything, he hit the nail on the head more often than not - just that he all too often let it get in the way of making a good story. And this is where it got its start.Night Watch is where comedy died. I liked it anyway, still, but this is where it all begins to go downhill. For me, at least.