I was very excited to read this because of the premise: Alternate medieval Al-Andalus, clash of cultures and religions, the fall of an Empire, the end of an era, and romance!By the time I got 100 pages into it, I was skimming. Pretty soon I was skipping whole chapters, looking for the names of people that vaguely interested me. This is not to say that the prose isn't good, and I know that the premise is...so what went wrong? The following.1. The set up surrounds a woman Kindath (Jewish) doctor, a Jaddite (Christian) Captain, and a Asharite (Muslim) Assassin/Poet/Statesman. I was all set for really compelling cultural clashes, and the meaningful address of religious importance and differences.Instead, religion was treated with a very light (almost non-existent) hand by the main characters (because the author wants you to like them) and outside of those you were to like, religion was a statesman's tool or a caricature of religion. Way to set up a legitimate (and relevant!!!) conflict and take all the weight out of it. It's like saying "Let's noblely climb this hill" and then calling in a bull-dozer to dig it down so you don't have to work for it. It was tin religion, for easy escape is what I'm sayin'2. Extremely modern sensibilities, for 12th-13th century style characters. No patience for that coming form my corner3. There was a lot of dialogue meant to establish the cleverness and friendship between the three main characters, but it was kind of wearing. I felt like everything was a set-up for the 'witty line' that came after. I read reviews that warned me that Kay overly built up his characters' marvelousness and cleverness, and I found this to be true.4. Sex scenes that, aside from my prudish preferences which others may not share, seemed a little ridiculous. Maybe they were meant to be over the top? I'm a romantic at heart, and I was looking for something compelling...and didn't find it. I was most intrigued by the Ammar (the Muslim Assassin/Poet) and Jehane (the Jewish doctor) romance. Probably due to my great skimming, I just wasn't drawn in. I am not normally a skimmer either. I like to take a book word by word, and savor the sentences. 5. Also, like another review said, everything is made out to be very portentous and meaningful, but it comes off as pretty melodramatic.In conclusion, I was saddened because I found the premise so very alluring. Perhaps its better than I perceived, but it simply was not what I was expecting. And I love the idea of an alternate version of an intriguing piece of history, but I wish it wasn't so very alternate that all the crucial challenges (religion! Culture!) weren't eschewed for "lite'n'easy" counterparts.