This is by far, the best book ive read the whole year and possibly one of the best in my entire life. If I could make a top ten list of my favorite books, this is definitely one of the top five or three. Doesn't really matter cuz its THAT great.Even up until now, I could still feel the tightness in my chest and the shallowness of my breath. I havent felt like this about a book for almost a year.Let me start from the very beginning. The book started out okay. It wasn't really gripping enough but I persevered (albeit after a few more days of setting it aside). Bartimaeus is certainly not something or someone you could ignore. Teehee. After a couple more chapters, the book became more and more interesting to the point where I couldn't possibly put it down. There were so much going on but it never felt rushed. The pieces that have been given to the readers from book 1 and 2 came perfectly into place. I must admit though that I figured out who the traitor is while I was reading book 2 but what the heck, the book still managed to kill me inside.The usual humor is ever so apparent that I continually find myself chuckling at myself. Also is it wrong for me to associate this specific paragraph with this?"But other cultures had no qualms about fusing djinn with inanimate objects: the Persians went in for carpets; certain down-at-eel Europeans went by mortar and pestle. Venturesome Chinese magicians even tried their hand at riding clouds."Despite all the shortcomings of Nathaniel and the other characters during the first and second book, the character development was indeed present. I could sympathize with Kitty and Nathaniel more. I think Jonathan Stroud did an excellent job finishing the series. I have no problems with it and personally think its perfect :DAlso, this is basically me when I was reading the second to the last page till the very end:This is me when I had the idea of what is going to happen:Then I became like this when it really did happen:Then thisAnd out of sheer coincidence, it began to rain (its crazy! Its like the universe knows how I felt deep down inside) so I became: