First of all, don't be fooled by the "Young Adult Fiction" label.I think anyone who enjoys a good read should give this trilogy a try. Yes, I even recommend it to those who don't normally read fantasies. This books is the final installment in the Bartimaeus trilogy, and arguably the most unique and satisfying conclusion I've ever read in any story. I find most fantasy heroes to be generic and predictable, for they are "destined" to fulfill an important role. They are depicted as brave, determined, and resourceful, yet they lack the fine flaws that make a character genuinely human. Stroud has captured exactly this. Nathaniel was not bestowed any particular talent, rather he drew his determination from a wounded pride. Spurred by a particular encounter with Lovelace way back in the first book, Nathaniel sought a way to gain his place in the world of politics and power, although he didn't really understand what true strength meant until the last few chapters of the book. On another note, I really love the switch between John Mandrake and Nathaniel, with the former being the corrupt and power thirsty magician and the latter being the innocent youth. ALthough Mandrake always carried a piece of Nathaniel somewhere deep down, it wasn't until this final book did that identity completely crumble. It's a story about growing up and realizing one's life values.I should probably comment on the great Bartimaeus himself. This witty spirit's utter most sarcasm had me rolling on the floor on countless occasions. I must applaud Stroud once again on this master piece creation. I've never felt such a deep connection with any character, probably because no one ever tried to use footnotes the way Stroud did. Again, this is not your typical ending to an epic hero story. With Nathaniel's final act, everything comes to a full circle, where the present echoed the past. By renewing the bond Bartimaeus treasured so dearly, Nathaniel had rekindled the possibility of a harmonious existence between humans and spirits. The ending isn't spelt out word for word, but the idea is there, albeit elusive. I must make a final confession here, I actually cried upon reading the last words! But I must say, it is tears worth. No review could do this trilogy justice, you really need to read it yourself to understand.