Writing this review after a month long absence doesn’t seem very fair, as I don’t have a copy of Cemetery Boys at my bedside anymore and I can’t flick for appropriate plot references and so on. However, there’s no way I can move onto another book and not feel guilty over not having this review done, so, alas, a late Christmas present. Yadriel, a young, trans boy desperately wants to be seen as a brujo by his family – a wielder of magic who assures spirits pass safely into the next life. To prove himself, he attempts to summon the ghost of a murdered family member except there’s a slight bit of a mistake. Instead of his cousin, he gets Julian – a reckless, foul-mouthed bad boy who happens to be in Yadriel’s grade and also dead without a clue what happened to him. Partnered up with Maritza, Yadriel’s cousin, the two boys attempt to solve Julian’s murder while a much darker threat looms on the horizon.A quick warning, this review should be short as my memory is a little foggy and I’ll be solely focused on the parts of the book that stood out to me the most, whether they’re bad or good. And luckily, there  good news for the characters.  I liked them . Especially, Julian. Especially, especially, Julian. Because, you know when you read a debut - cross that out - the fourth book of an established authors career and you see they’re trying to write a funny, quirky character and it doesn’t pan out? Well, it does here. Because, Julian is genuinely a funny character and such a sweetheart at that. I won’t lavishly throw praise over the dialogue, because sometimes it was a bit on the nose, but to see little spurts of realism and humour done well in a debut  is a good indication to me the author is going to get even better, and is quite promising.Moving on, I was also pleased with Yadriel and Maritza. Being fair, both were more thinly draw than Julian and often outshined by him, but there is a difficulty in writing a relatively good, “everyman” main character without them being blander than the supporting cast. I did like Yadriel, I can say, due to his own sense of humour as well as not being overtly bland or passive. However, the most compelling aspect of his character happened to be his struggles. By far, the most interesting part of the book to me was Yadriel trying to live life as a trans man, minus his mother, multiplied by his families ignorance, plus all the mysticism that surrounds him. This was possibly the most nuanced exploration of being trans I’ve read yet, and I believe it was quite an important read. Seeing things like Yadriel’s family use his deadname, misgender him or even his struggles with the school bathrooms lends a much deeper layer beyond the supernatural in this book, and a much more heartfelt one too. When something goes right for Yadriel, you cheer. You want the best for him and whenever he has a little win, or a new advancement is made, you can’t help but feel happy for him.I also liked Thomas’ choice to portray a more three-dimensional take on Yadriel’s family. They don’t outright accept or reject him. They’re trying to navigate through it with a lot of goodwill but with many mistakes along the way. His dad is trying his best, but he still doesn’t fully understand the best way to behave, or the fact Yadriel’s grandmother still uses female pronouns when speaking Spanish, without understanding the harm it causes Yadriel. The book being more balanced adds both much-needed realism with such an important topic. Not to mention frustration. These slip-ups are not fun to read about, yet it is believable that a family leaning more towards tradition see them as either insignificant or petite. Even more irritating, these kind of things do happen to transgender people every day and Thomas accurately writes Yadriel’s annoyance, as well as ours.Swinging back to characters, I also liked Maritza too. I feel she was the personification of readers trying to get the Yulian (?) ship sailing, and she maintained a good dynamic with both boys. Also, she consistently proved herself to be a strong character who took no bullshit. Though there may have been a few, too many mentions of her hair colour (sorry, I just hate when authors repeat “look, their hair is purple!” or “she somehow has a secret mole on her face” for some reason.) Bonus, she plays soccer and for some reason I think that’s cool.So, while I did like the characters and believe all of the any conversations regarding being LGBTQ+ were done beautifully, they sadly can’t accost for the issues with this book, and unfortunately, there were a lot of them.To summarise the predicted plot in a few lines: Someone is attempting to re-access a deadly type of power with dangerous consequences. People have gone missing. Yadriel summons a ghost. Ghost happens to be cute, bad boy. Yadriel + CBB try to solve the mystery before Día de los Muertos, complete with action, forbidden romance and rep along the way. That sounds like a cool book, except we don’t get this. There are hints of it, except this book is very much bogged down by exposition, bland writing and a structure that feels in no way cohesive. You see, the world-building sounds really interesting. It’s clear Thomas has put a lot of work into their premise and I always love reading about mythologies that I know nothing about. But honestly, it seemed like the more interesting aspects were locked off to us as readers and very much put in the background. For example, things like the challenges people had to face to make it to the afterlife, or just the general history about Lady Death and the Jaguar God (I can’t remember his name, so please excuse me if this is incorrect.) all sounded amazing and very fantastical. As a contemporary fantasy, I understand why the magic would be more grounded but the book really would’ve benefited from the wilder parts of Thomas’ world-building.Because unfortunately, the plot is boring and not tightly written. The links between scenes and plot points felt very artificially done and I was disappointed by the lack of imagination. The whole thing felt as if it was written without a plan, like Thomas wandered from scene to scene without thinking what makes an action-packed and entertaining book. Obviously, not all books need to be action-packed (you would hope they’re entertaining though), but the writing was not strong enough to carry this book on atmosphere or characters alone. A lot of the book focuses on the relationship between Yadriel and Julian, but I nearly always wondered “couldn’t Thomas have come up with a more interesting scene relevant to the plot and still have the relationship develop?” instead of re-treading “they’re in Yadriel’s bedroom, they’re walking somewhere, they’re in Yadriel’s bedroom again.” Have them talk after a fight with spirits turned bad maybe? An exploration into more magic? Something, anything to further in a plot in an organic, interesting and scary way (sorry, I wanted some Halloween feels.)Another issue is that this book contains little to no tension, as the evilness plot is kind of forgotten about. It’s hard to be scared of an apparent killer trying to re-claim the power of an evil god when the characters appear so indifferent to it. The whole book feels so passive, I think is the best way to describe my feelings. You're supposed be tricked into thinking this darker plot is going on when really there’s no suspense or thrills because the characters care more about other things. I’d even say I’d rather this book just be about Julian and Yadriel’s relationship since it was a lot more interesting and the book wouldn’t be bogged down in something that only feels half-heartedly invested in. For example, at one stage, they use a party as an excuse to take the day off. Never mind the party doesn’t make it past a page, but this is just a weak plot device to get the boys to Secluded Spot to Have Feelings. Seriously, could Have Feelings not had happened during an actual plot point that might be relevant to the story?(Also, the villain was ridiculously predictable. They could’ve been called Villain for all I care, since it was basically stamped on their face the moment we met them. To add to that, since the main plot is forgotten about, their motivation gives us no empathy for them.)Another thing I want to point out, which is a little odder, is this book does not feel mature enough. Maybe I had different expectations than everyone else, but I genuinely think if you cut out the swearing in this book, it could be easily marketed to 10-13 year olds over older teenagers. Something about the cast and writing felt very young, and maybe it’s due to the book being a debut, maybe it’s due to the light-heartedness of the story, but it is the most juvenile YA book I’ve read in a while. I don’t mean that as an insult, and it’s possible the teens in the story are a more accurate depiction than the usual brooding, self-suffering teens of YA, but I just didn’t expect it, if I’m honest. Also, the writing. Yeah... I have to say it, it wasn’t great. This book is very clearly a debut and in all honesty, I do think it should’ve run through an editor again. I’m no expert, but something felt off straight away when I saw the amount of exposition in the first few chapters. I can’t lie, I’m genuinely surprised a published book had such amateur tell-tales. And, I think I pointed out the amount of exposition in my review for “Into The Drowning Deep,” too, but at least that was somewhat organic. Here, Yadriel’s thoughts can jump from something like thinking about his family to what Brujx receive when they’re fifteen. It hits you with the force of the train with it’s randomness and could be plucked straight from a history book in the way it’s told. This book contains the worst examples of exposition I’ve read this year. Now, this does get better since there’s less exposition later in the book, but that’s because practically all of it was in the first few pages. Rather than being woefully lopsided, the information should’ve been spread out through the book and dropped a little bit…well, more subtly anyway.The prose also wasn’t great either which maybe enhanced the juvenile feel I was getting from it. Being fair, basic prose in books doesn’t bother me (unless it doesn’t flow well), but this really felt like an earlier draft rather than the fully edited, published book. Things were told in a very mundane way which meant I got a little bored or disinterested during scenes. Some parts of the plot I liked, for example when we meet Julian’s group of friends (who are all interesting characters in their own right) or Yadriel in school, but they’re so detached from the overall plot, it does feel like flicking back and forth between different genres. Also, the ending. Very anti-climatic, though the lack of build-up prepares you for it anyway. It’s quite rushed and I’m wondering will there be a sequel, but if there is, what was the point of this book either than Yadriel’s personal/romantic life? It sets up little to nothing. It’s possible Thomas stored up the more fantastical elements for the future, but they could’ve easily been used in this book to make it more entertaining. I know this book means so much to so many people, and I’d recommend you to read it, but the story itself just didn’t work for me beyond Yadriel and Julian’s relationship.Honestly, looking at the distance between this review and when I read it (six weeks maybe), my general thoughts of the book would be "it's underwhelming". This is super subjective, since most Goodreads readers loved it and I’d always advise you to trust them over me, but I could not vibe with the plot or weak story structure. Though I will say this: That yearbook scene gets a star of its own – I did not expect it to make me feel some type of way.