DID I FINISH THIS BOOK OR DID IT FINISH ME?- - -(spoiler free review. tw list at the bottom. this is a Latinx ownvoices review)I really experienced so many different emotions while reading this book, and most of them were just some form of happiness. Happiness for Yadriel, whenever something good happened to him, and happiness for myself, because I was blessed with this ARC. (Thank you to MacMillan, Swoon Reads, and Netgalley for providing me with an eARC!)It’s difficult to put my feelings for this book into words. My feelings toward it fall under my own special category of “I loved it for so many reasons but most of those are personal”. In other words, this book had a lot of things that I personally love, but I’m not sure they are things other people would love as well. First of all, the characters! I loved the characters. As a character-based reader, these bright characters really made the whole experience for me. I loved how the interacted with each other, and I loved how different they were from each other. As a Latina, I also appreciated the Latinx representation in this book. Many Latinx books feel stiff and stereotypical, but this one was bright and lively, and it made me proud to know a lot about Yadriel’s culture already. I could tell this was personal to the author, and I really appreciated that. Another thing I admire about the writing is the amount of times I related to the events in this book, or the times I really believed what the characters were doing. There were times when Yadriel did something and I felt in my soul that I related so much, that I would also do the same thing if I was in his situation. And there were times when Yadriel’s Lita did something frustrating, and I believed it because I have an abuelita and she would 100% do the same thing. Something I noticed and liked, but also recognized that not everyone would feel the same way about, was the fact that these characters were sometimes a bit too exaggerated. At times, it was just characteristic, but other times, their action were a bit too fast-paced or their dialogue was a bit too loud. (For example, if a character yelled about something in all caps, italics, and with an exclamation point, rather than just italics.) There were a few scenes which were kind of messy, in a way which made the dialogue flow a little bit difficult to follow, but I think that’s common when it comes to debut books. (Although, I think this is technically Thomas’ second book.) But this was easy to overlook and understand for me. Also, according to Aiden Thomas’ twitter, they’ve made a lot of edits since the ARCs were sent out, so hopefully a lot of these issues have been resolved. Character like-ability: 4.5Character development: 3.5Plot development: 4Writing style: 3Dialogue: 3.5Personal emotions: 53.9 ≈ 4 stars ---tw: transphobia, death, misgendering and deadnaming, gender dysphoria, parental death, some references to blood magic.