I definitely got the "did I read a different book than everyone else" feeling when seeing the scads of positive reviews, but I did not like this at all. I'll get to why in a second, but let's start with the part of it that was great, which was the trans representation. I think trans boys are going to read this book and feel seen. This aspect of the book was super well done, compassionate and important. The romance is pretty cute, and I liked the romantic interest (Julian).BUT.This book is next-level sexist. And it starts with the main character and worldbuilding. In terms of the worldbuilding, boys get cool knives and the ability to do ghostly magic, and girls have to carry around rosaries (which are a type of necklace) and have healing powers. The lineage is patriarchal - only men can lead the aquelarre (aka coven). Because ladies can't be leaders, amiright? Now, while I understand this is likely somewhat based on actual mythology, I've read plenty of books based in Latinx mythology that were not so insanely gendered and insulting to women (I list a few below). That said, I probably could've ignored the worldbuilding aspect if women weren't also consistently treated like second class citizens throughout the book. For example, right at the beginning, a character is murdered, and the men all go out to find his murderer, ordering the women to stay home and cook. Because ladies belong in the kitchen, amiright? And Yadriel only bats an eye because he is forced to stay home with the women when he is a boy. Which, to be clear, is also extremely wrong (he's a boy and should be treated like one), but it never occurs to him that the women should not be treated like lesser people. He only cares when HE is treated like a woman, aka a lesser human, and is so directly affected. This behavior persists throughout the book. The sexism was really weird because the book otherwise goes out of its way to be conscientious. It was baffling. There are also some plot, writing and character development issues, but those issues could be fixed with editing, and quite frankly pale next to the sexism. There are other, better, queer Latinx fantasies out there. If you're looking for some cool insight into the mythology, try J. C. Cervantes' The Storm Runner. If you want a queer fantasy, I'd recommend pretty much anything by Anna-Marie McLemore, We Set the Dark on Fire by Tehlor Kay Mejia or The Order of the Pure Moon Reflected on Water by Zen Cho (not Latinx, but does have a trans mc and is so so good). 1 star. I did not like it and will not be recommending it.Thanks to Netgalley and Swoon Reads for the eARC, which I received for my obviously unbiased opinion. Cemetery Boys is out 01 September.