↠ 4.5 starsThe first daughter is for the throne. The second is for the wolf. All her life Redarys has known that as the kingdom’s second daughter her sole purpose is to be sacrificed to the Wilderwood and the Wolf keeping its gods captive. Though her sister Neve rages against her fate, Red has accepted it, plagued by an unknown power and determined to never hurt those close to her again. As the only second daughter born in centuries, Red has all the more reason to go, but when the day arrives and she feels the woods pulling her forward, she finds that the legends she’s been told are not entirely true. For one, the protection offered by the Wilderwoods is weakening, and the Wolf is just a man as much of a captive as she is. Red is exactly what the woods have been waiting for, and her power is the key to set them free. That is if Red can learn to control it before the forest weakens and the gods overtake it and destroy her world for good. Well, there's nothing quite like one of your most anticipated reads of the summer being just as good as you had hoped. Boy have I been loving this trend of cursed forests, crumbling estates, and wolves, and this dark fantasy debut blended those perfectly. For the Wolf is a novel shrouded in political turmoil and rooted in folklore, an extraordinary story that had me feeling caught right from the start and did not relent until right at the very end. Don’t even get me started on the slow-burn romance, it’s all-consuming and underlying tension had me aching for more, while at the same time begging for respite. Brooding monster boyfriends really are the move what else can I say. Eammon is everything to me. Besides the romance, the exploration of sisterhood and sacrifice was by far the most compelling part of the novel. I loved the complicated familial relationships and dynamics examined on par with everything else that was going on — Specifically, the points of view for Red and the interludes for her sister Neve, which contrasted nicely against the plot development. Neve’s perspective was easily the most interesting to me as it provided a nice break from Red’s point of view and was beyond entertaining. Not that it at all prepared me for the third act, which hit me like a truck coming out of nowhere. All that's left to do now is wait for the second and final book in the series: For the Throne, coming out next July. I'll just be over here screaming about this book in the meantime. In her haunting fantasy debut inspired by Red Riding Hood and Beauty and the Beast, Hannah Whitten has carved out her place in adult fantasy, with rich prose and detailed imagery that makes no apologies. Comparing this to Uprooted and The Bear and the Nightingale is certainly appropriate, and there is no doubt that readers who enjoyed both will be desperate to sink their teeth into this amazing story. Honestly, after reading this I want nothing other than to disappear into a cursed forest and explore ruined castles for hours. Applications are open for those interested in joining me. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing this arc in exchange for an honest reviewTrigger warnings: death, violence, gore, blood, anxiety/panic attacks, self-harm