2/5 Stars2021 update: the book has antisemitic undertone, beware.SOME TEA IS ABOUT TO BE SPILLED. I'M AN ANGRY CUNT. Instagram | Ughhh, where do I start? Wicked saints was such a mess. I'm left picking up the pieces and I'm not okay with it. Okay, so the pitch is this; A girl can talk to Gods, a Prince is at Death's door and a monster is looking for redemption. The three of them must ally to stop the war currently ravaging the two opposed countries. This story is just so problematic on so many levels, I can't even mention it all because I have bigger fish to fry. Here's a short list though: -the MC is the dumbest in town. She's useless and hopeless and I fucking hate her guts. For 85% of the book, I was wishing she would die. She can't do anything on her own and she's always scared of everything all the time. She doesn't think. She falls in love for the first guy who breathes in her direction and is the blandest cunt in the neighbourhood.  -The villain is such an important character that he doesn't even talk once in the story. We never learn his motivations apart from the obvious fact that he wants power. So what if the dude wants power? What does he want power for? What's the goal? Why is he scared? What is happening!!!! -The plot is so dumb. The characters don't even believe in what they're doing. It feels forced because what they're doing doesn't align with their 2 cents motivations and personality. They did a U-turn from their original plan to go to another country to kill some distant old king which clearly, doesn't align with their goal. -The romance is forced down our throats like a turkey on Thanksgiving. There's no connection, no reason for it to exist, and yet here it is... because, of course, *eye roll* it wouldn't be YA without romance -' -This book is basically a 2019 version of Shadow and Bone and it's not even trying to hide it. the romance with the dark guy; the Russian inspired universe; the war to stop; the village idiot (MC); even the plot twist is the same! Why isn't anyone talking about that? -The writing style was so confusing. (To be honest, I didn't know what was happening half of the time.) It wasn't engaging at all and bored me to death. -I feel like Wicked Saints is the new Red Queen: everyone reads it and enjoys it at first because it's a mismatch of what we loved in our favourite series, but months later we realize how bad it actually is. The original rating was 3.5 but I began bunking it down after I read it because I started to see all of the wrong things with it. The more I think about it, the angrier it makes me.