Long before Harry Potter, there was Diane Duane’s Young Wizards series, about two lonely tweens who become wizards and best friends in a quest to save the world(s). I devoured these books in middle school, although I didn’t fully understand all of the scientific concepts that the author weaves into the story...including entropy, black holes, string theory, and the lifespan of stars. I just remember being fascinated by the exciting adventures of Kit and Nita. Re-reading this book as an adult, I’m even more impressed by how intelligent and interesting the story is for readers of all ages. When the book starts, Nina is hiding from school bullies in the children’s section of the library. Tucked into the “career” books about becoming a doctor or firefighter, she discovers a guide to becoming a wizard. But like the knights of old, she has to first take an oath and complete an “Ordeal” that proves her valor. The work of wizards is to fight entropy throughout the universe, which is embodied in the figure of the Lone One. Drawing on myths of Lucifer, the Lone One is a fallen version of a bright star who turned his back on the Powers That Be and introduced death into the world. After taking her oath, Nita and another young wizard, a boy named Kit, face the Lone One in a corrupted alternate version of Manhattan. Accompanied by a friendly star (which has left most of its mass elsewhere) they face predatory helicopters, man-eating cars, and a very old dragon with memory loss in their quest to return a special book to its rightful place. The world building is thoughtful, the characters are engaging, and almost every chapter has some neat and creative idea about the practice of wizardry. (I loved the world gates for travel between universes, which are managed by sentient cats in New York’s Grand Central Station.) Other books have since “borrowed” some of Duane’s ideas, such as the Speech, the universal language of power that wizards use to persuade animals, objects, and even space to do the wishes of the speaker. But I think my favorite part of the story is the celebration of friendship across stereotypical boundaries. Highly recommended for readers of all ages and for families to read together.