Everyone one has seen the books like "So you wanna be a (fill in the blank)". Nita gets lucky enough to find one that is to help her along her way to become a wizard! This is the dream of half the children in America. Nita decides she wants to use this book to help her fend off the bullies who constantly beat her up and leave her nursing her wounds and her pride on a daily basis. One day as she is learning about her new found magical abilities, she runs into Kit, also a new wizard. They put their heads together and in their first meeting perform a spell together that will benefit them both, or so they had hoped. In this first excursion, they pick up Fred, an adorable new friend who was once a black hole. While picking up Fred, they discover a hideous world they are anxious to escape from, the feelings of terror and vileness are palpable. Back in their own reality, they children embark on a journey that not only leads them to powers they never dreamed of, it leads them straight back to the horrible reality they so recently escaped. The children struggle to free themselves from a land where fire hydrants eat pigeons, and helicopters try to eat humans. I was enthralled with the book at the onset. The synopsis of the book had me ready for a marvelous fantastic adventure. What this turned out to be was more of sci-fi book with the terms magic thrown around in it in order to get in on the latest wizard bandwagon. I have heard before of magic having a place in the scientific realm - the whole shebang. But when they are transported to a land where everything is mechanical, and everything with a gear in it is evil, I feel like I am in a PG rated Terminator movie. I appreciate the original idea of it, but it simply wasn't to my taste. Someone had suggested this to me after I mentioned I wanted something to help me get over my Harry Potter fixation. If you are looking for a fantastic world of that nature, this is not the book for you. If you are looking for a fantastic world that will lead you more on the Battle Star Galactica course this is what you are looking for.When I look for magic, I'm not ready or wanting to read about mechanical things, it throws off my groove. I'm not saying this was a poorly written book, it is written very well, and anyone who is interested in more "technical" magic will fall in love with this book. But for my entertainment buck, I'll pass on the sequel.