“Run, little dreamer.”The Bone Season is not an easy book to read. It's definitely not one of those books you can read when you have some time to kill. When you start this, you have to forget about everything else, because Samantha Shannon is a all-or-nothing kind of author and she requires all your memory and effort. Not gonna lie, up until the first half of this book (and a little after that, too), I couldn't really decide whether I liked it or not. Like I said, it's full of terms and names that you never really get around to learn completely, and the lore is so intricate and complicated taking notes is not much of an exaggeration, but almost a necessity if you want to keep up. In fact, I found myself pretty confused by the plot and, although I really adore Paige and Warden as characters, I had the impression that some things about them, their interactions with each other and the situations they were thrown in, felt unnecessarily forced or made hard to comprehend.An example of this is that, at first, the chapters felt too long and dragged on so much they bored me. It took me a little to realise what I needed to fully appreciate this book was a different approach. I was too concentrated on understanding the lore, too focused on remembering who was who and who did what. Once I let go and simply started following my reader instinct and how the various words made me feel, I found out not only this book is a wild ride, but also an enjoyable one. If, like me, you've liked Strange the Dreamer by Laini Taylor, you'll find that The Bone Season relies on a very similar poeticalness. It's all about the feelings.The second half of the book was much better thanks to the different perspective I allowed myself to use. It's also faster and action-packed, so it's almost impossible to get bored.I would say Paige is a very complex character. She reminds me a lot of Katniss Everdeen (who I pretty much ADORE) and I'd even go as far as to say she's some sort of anti-heroine because her goals and desires often put her in a position that could easily brush edges with a grey area. Overall, The Bone Season is a great first installment. It's dark, grimy, with an awesome world-building and a strong characterization of the various characters. Okay, it's kind of a lot to take in and the info-dumping can be too much to bare, but I agree with the majority when I say it's worth the effort. I still think it's still very important to brace yourself before reading this huge job of a book and that you need to keep in mind that it all depends on how you get into it, but I'm glad I ended up liking it way more than I thought I did when I first started it. Can't wait to see what's gonna happen next. ACTUAL RATINGS 3,5/5__________________#PenguinOnATBRMission: book #1◾this hashtag is something I self-indulgently created for fun when I decided to thin out my immense tbr list as a new years resolution starting from books I added on GR back in 2017/2018/2019, and since I can't seem to do anything quietly and I'm well known for being an overachiever, I had to go and turn it into an official thing. Feel free to check out the shelf with the same name if you don't mind keeping up with this insanely over-hyped adventure I got myself into. Take it as a chance to rediscover some books from a few years ago that might have accidentally flown under your radar, or to simply share with another fellow reader your very own reading experience. Happy reading and stay penguin-y!◾To Be Continued...🐧