First read in March 2015Fantastic is an understatement.The Bone Season absolutely blew me away. Such a fantastically written book, with a gripping plot, amazing characters and original setting and ideas. I flew through it, despite the rocky beginning - there’s quite a lot of information presented, which can make it difficult for the reader to connect, but once you get pass that, you will not want to put this book down. It’s imaginative, it presents a fresh setting and it’s a riveting read.The year is 2059 and Paige Mahoney is living in London (an alternate reality London) and is part of a crime syndicate, composed of clairvoyants (which can be easiest defined as people who can see/influence spirits/ghosts and affect other people on a spiritual level) . After certain events unfold, Paige is captured and she ends up Oxford, under the rule of a race from another world. Thus begins Paige’s desperate attempt to gain her freedom and return home.I loved, looooved the idea that sits at the basis of this book - the idea of people who can see spirits and influence them and other people who possess similar abilities. These people actually fight with each other using their powers and it was fascinating to read about it, because it’s not something you see in every book. I loved the world that Samantha has created, the laws that govern it, the slang, the culture, literally everything - it has become one of my all time favourite book worlds. There’s also a huge character diversity, and while it may be difficult to follow so many characters at times, it’s refreshing to see such variety in terms of characters. I love Paige - she’s smart, determined, likable and she’s taken a place in my all time favourite female characters list. Jax has an allure that compels you, despite the fact that he’s kind of an asshole. Warden has mystery and I loved to see his relationship with Paige slowly develop. I was interested in all of them and that is a testament of Samantha’s writing ability - to make you care about the characters and their relationships.I found it difficult to pinpoint a certain genre for this book, but that is in no way a bad thing. On the contrary, it means that people who prefer different genres can all find something to love here. It’s a mix of dystopian/paranormal/fantasy that works extremely well. Give it a try, you won’t regret it. It has become one of my favourite books of the year so far and I cannot wait to get my hands on the sequel - The Mime Order.Favourite quotes:“Knowledge is dangerous. Once you know something, you can’t get rid of it. You have to carry it. Always.”“Don’t judge too quickly, little dreamer.”★★★★★ To everyone who got this far, thank you for reading and have a wonderful day! Also, feel free to share your thoughts, comment or tell me anything :)