4.25 “You were f*cking magnificent” Stars!Our vampire era is back, babes! However, put away your old school memorabilia i.e. the Edward Cullen glittering pencil cases, your True Blood tshirts and Underworld box-set dvds, and make room for a hunger-games vampire edition of a fantasy romance on your shrines shelf!My Semi-Brief Summary:Our story begins with Oraya, a human girl with a bite, found by the vampire, Nightborn king, Vincent after the slaughter of her family and people. Vincent took Oraya in and has been training her for the goddess Nyaxia’s Kejari tournament since a young age. That he has won himself before.For this year’s tournament, Oraya is up against a group of vampires so fierce the odds seem to be unlikely in her favor. Oraya is keen on survival in hopes of winning the trials and receiving a wish from Nyaxia. Oraya knows never to trust anyone who isn’t her father, Vincent. However, within this tournament allies are needed. After being rescued multiple times by the mysterious, merciless and quite frankly bothersome Raihn, Oraya has no other choice than to partner with him for the time being. Why does he keep pushing her buttons, and why can’t she help but want to be near him and as far away as possible all at once? With the tournament and unaccounted for war happening simultaneously, attraction at the cost of her life must be pushed aside. The saying goes: keep your friends close, and your enemies closer. Oraya has no friends and enemies everywhere she looks. How close can she get before it becomes her undoing?Thoughts:THIS WAS A WHIRLWIND! The plot twists this book gave me broke my neck from the whiplash! It was everything I was promised: dark, sexy, mysterious, and action-packed! I was on the edge of my seat basically for the last ⅓ of the book.Characters:Oraya: A BADDIE IF I HAVE EVER SEEN ONE! I love it when I can root for a protagonist and not want to roll my eyes at them at the same time. I am such a happy camper with her character development and actions. I stand beside her on everything EXCEPT FOR HER WISH YOU DUMMY DUMB DUMB! WHYYYYY???!Raihn: You walking red flag of a man! It took me a second to love you, but now I am attached like leech and good luck trying to remove me now! I also hate you *I say as I blush and moon over you* :) The lines this man provided to the story almost took me out. There was not enough air conditioning in my house to keep me from overheating! Mische: In the middle of all these grumpy and ruthless vampires, there is a ray of a sunshine and her name is Mische. I love her character so much! Every time she comes up, you smile. You just can’t help it. She has happy fairy-vampire-witch-energy, and I am here for it! We needed more of her.Vincent: I have never been more conflicted on how I feel about someone than on this guy. He is quite frankly one of the best executed characters too in the story in my opinion.Septimus: Name aside… *puts hair behind ear* I barely know you, but my attention was grabbed every time you were in a scene. Especially once you said “dove”. If you don’t have more of a role in book 2, I will riot! My minor qualms:-I’m all about show and not tell, but there are a lot of different vampire houses, deities and magic systems that a refresh or further explanation is needed at times because I can’t keep up with all the plot or scenery changes while trying to keep my vampires in order.-The interludes: I loved how much additional information we were given when these were included to the past, but the writing style for them was way different in my opinion then from the rest of the book, and it kind of threw me off a bit at times. Which created a bit of disconnect.Overall after the way this book has been talked up, I can confirm the hype is correct on it! I shrieked. I had butterflies. I was so angry I had to pace. I was extremely upset. With all the emotions that I felt, I knew these are the feelings I chase for when wanting to read a good book.
Shoutout to my twin-brained bestie Deema! This read would not have been the same without you! I cannot wait to continue book 2 with you my darling!!
Would I recommend this and to who:  YES! Who doesn’t love a good adult dark vampire fantasy? Do it!Paperback/Hardcover/Audiobook/E-book:  E-book!How did I discover this: Fellow GR reviewers who hyped this book up so much I could not afford not to read it without suffering the biggest FOMO!Pace:  Medium-ishCover thoughts:  UM HELLO- STUNNING! I'M IN LOVE!POV: SingleQuotes: ”Because he looked at me in sheer awe—like I was the most incredible thing he had ever seen. Like I was a fucking goddess.”“I would beg,” he murmured. “For you, I would. You have fucking destroyed me, Oraya. Do you know that?”“you don’t even know, Oraya. The things I’ve thought about. ‘Want’ doesn’t even fucking cover it. I have a list.”“Death isn’t frightening when weighed against an insignificant existence.”“I was not waiting for you to apologize. I’d be disappointed if you did.” “I have no regrets. I’d throw you out that window again.” “Oh, I know, princess. I know.”“Don’t fucking touch her,”“And he whispered, “There she is.”” Triggers: Death, Violence, Murder, Injury, Gore, Blood, War, Sexual Content, Assault, Torture, Genocide, Rape, Assault, Slavery, Grief, Classism, Toxic Relationships, Confinement, etc.