"It was the woman, always the women, be they helpless serving girls or princesses, who paid the price. Cursed to roam the land without refuge, transformed into a shambling bear or lowing cow, or burned to ashes by the vengeful white armed goddess."There's been a spate of these Greek myth re-tellings in honeyed modern prose and I have to say I'm a sucker for them. Unfortunately, this is probably the weakest one I've come across. Jennifer Saint attacks the Theseus myth from Ariadne's perspective while also giving her sister Phaedra some air time and she does a good job of the telling. But I found the characterisation of Ariadne weak and uninspiring, and the characterisation of Phaedra strong until a bizarre twist on the original myth undermines all the good work from the beginning. Ariadne makes one affirmative decision to help Theseus at the start of the story and then is just blown in the wind for the rest of the book. Even when she does stand up to others it amounts to nothing more than her own crippling self-doubt. Now it's true that Saint must follow quite closely the original source material but the internal life of Ariadne is all her own and that is unfortunately the weakest part of the story.Phaedra at least develops some backbone and ability to control the events around her but she is undone by the deeds of others. Oddly, Saint chooses not to address the normal telling of the myth where Phaedra is collateral for Hippolytus' insult of Aphrodite, another chance to show how women wear the consequences of the god's and men's selfish actions. Instead we get Phaedra dragged into some sort of strange teenage madness and then committing suicide when her love is spurned. I found this going against the grain of Phaedra's character and all that Saint had worked for. This is a Phaedra quote:"As if we hadn't learned from our shattered mother and her monstrous spawn that all a woman can do in this world is take what she wants from it and crush those who would stand in her way before they squash her down to nothing."This is the ruthless Phaedra we expect, this is the Phaedra of the original myth. Instead we get someone who loses her marbles after being spurned by her stepson and rapidly decides suicide is the only way out. In the original myth she falsely accuses Hippolytus of rape and then Theseus kills him to defend her honour. I can see why Saint rewrote this but unfortunately it betrays the headstrong and willful Phaedra that has fought for every inch in the previous 300 pages.The exploration of the darker side of the Dionysian cult was quite good but I felt the ending was incredibly rushed and the chance to show Perseus as a completely different kind of hero was lost. Because Saint did a great job of characterising the male villains. We'd had the cruel ruler Minos, the ladies man and fame hound Theseus, then the immortal reveller Dionysus, followed by the austere horse lover Hippolytus (less a villain, more a simpleton), it was a chance for us to finally get a middle of the road hero who was strong but also a good ruler. I know Saint tried to imply that Perseus and Ariadne unravelled all of that with a single glance but I don't think it worked. I also think the handling of the final showdown was poor. Dionysus is supposed to be welcomed to the city after the death of Ariadne through a deal brokered by Hermes. I feel like that would have been a strong point to make again about how women are the collateral damage in so many of these Greek myths but Saint didn't seem to want to take that route. I also felt that Hera's presence in the novel was in some ways a missed opportunity. She's always there as Araidne's enemy by proxy but we never really explore how the white-armed goddess (not the greatest of epithets) of marriage and birth, the protector of women, and the queen of all gods could have it in for these poor women, exploited by her King of the Gods husband, her Olympian brothers and their children. Instead as Ariadne points out."It was the woman, always the women, be they helpless serving girls or princesses, who paid the price. Cursed to roam the land without refuge, transformed into a shambling bear or lowing cow, or burned to ashes by the vengeful white armed goddess."It's moments like these that remind me of the missed opportunity to really give a nuanced feminist slant to these myths. Saint takes the easy wins but seems incapable of stringing them all together into a grand theme or message. In a way it's unfair to compare this to Circe because Miller had so much more leeway, given there wasn't a well beaten path she had to follow. Saint is constrained by the very well-known exploits of Theseus and this restricts her a little bit in the action of the story. But where Circe is an uplifting tale of how a woman can fight the odds stacked against her and even best the Gods at times, Ariadne is almost the opposite, a despairing tale of the ultimate helplessness of women. Such a strange message.On a side note, Pasiphae, Ariadne's mum is actually the sister of Circe, said to have considerable witch like abilities too. I'm surprised that Saint didn't explore that more. It would have been quite believable that Ariadne had been taught some of these techniques. Equally, the dancing that Ariadne does at the beginning of the novel just disappears, it seemed like such a useful tool to be used with Dionysus later on. Many missed opportunities.I'll leave you with another glowing quote that showed the unfulfilled potential of the story."The price we paid for the resentment, the lust and the greed of arrogant men was our pain, shining and bright like the blade of a newly honed knife."