My copy of the book says "Ariadne, the brilliant feminist debut that everybody is talking about." Now bear with me here, but in my humble opinion, this is neither brilliant nor feminist. Unless you consider resorting to the false dichotomy of "all men suck, women rock" feminist. I personally don't associate this idea with feminism, because although it focuses more on women, 21st century feminism has been collective, intersectional, abolitionist and most importantly, open to all. We are trying not to alienate anybody, we do not uphold age-old stereotypes that only further expand patriarchy. Sadly, it seems like some white feminists still think the struggle is "men vs women" and not "everyone versus patriarchy, capitalism, racism, bigotry, oppression."Granted, a lot of Greek heroes and male greek Gods did suck, but I'd argue that most Greek Gods of all genders sucked, they were all sycophants. The book also seems to emulate some advanced version of the Madonna-whore complex. Women who claimed power for themselves and exercised it, like Medea and Hera, are portrayed as 'evil', while innocent, helpless women like Ariadne and Phaedra are portrayed as 'good.' I'm not trying to say that Hera is good, I'm just saying that she isn't any worse than Zeus with whom the word 'rape' is never once associated in this book. He is portrayed as a mostly neutral God who occasionally 'defiles' women. But Hera, who only makes a brief appearance in the end in a non-speaking role, is portrayed as pure evil.There is also no actual character development, the men get worse and the women remain helpless, clueless. Ariadne starts as out as a woman who couldn't figure out her place in the world and ends that way too. I understand that the author didn't write fanfiction and therefore couldn't alter the myth itself, but she chose to end the story on a sad, sour note. I suppose this is actually a tragedy that portrays the horrible price Ariadne and Phaedra had to pay for actions they had no part in. And although this wasn't supposed to be fanfiction, the author twists the Hippolytus-Phaedra myth wherein she writes that Phaedra never actually accused Hippolytus of rape, but that an incomplete letter she wrote just before her death was found and misinterpreted. If Jennifer Saint could claim the agency to do this, I bet she could throw in some character development. This was such a disappointing and annoying read. It's a shame, because I actually absolutely love the myth of Ariadne.