did someone summon me? I heard the magic words . . . antiheroine arc and f/f and bisexual mc.The first thought I had immediately after finishing this (and throughout, really) is that I think it would have thrived as a duology. That is not to say it does not make a satisfying standalone (it does), but there are two identifiable parts to the book and I felt like the antiheroine arc could've been  really good if pulled over two books, as would the development of the romance with Parvaneh. The other thing was that I kind of wished it was a lot darker. There is a clear antiheroine bent to Soraya, and sometimes she slips into a crueller mindset, but most of the time there's regret and hurt at how people treat her and at points I was honestly like RISE UP AND BECOME A DARK QUEEN WITH THE SHAHMAR. She also never really had that manipulative or morally grey bent I like to see in my antiheroines, but then again, her true purpose was not to go out and amass power for herself even though I kind of wish it was but lol. She was, in a way, a reluctant antiheroine who wanted to belong rather than feel like she was remotely evil in anyway. This kind of leads me onto the Shahmar, who I . . . loved? I actually saw the entire twist in the middle of the book coming when it was revealed that that character was actually the cursed snake king. You don't usually build up a romance with a character early on unless you're going to have a big twist in the middle of the story. And besides, aforementioned character was too nice and the foreshadowing with viper comparisons was there right in the beginning. For some readers, I do think it'll be a fun surprise though unless you read this review in which I'm trying to be vague but you'll know when you start reading who I'm on about, rip. I don't want to write tons about the Shahmar (okay maybe I do), but as a villain I really liked him. I love seeing villains explored and working as a kind of mirror to the hero/antihero, and that's done here. "You and I don't belong fully to either world," the Shahmar says to Soraya, and I'm a sucker for the cursed prince, the villian with understandable but flawed motivations. His actions towards Soraya were strangely kind, as he believed he finally had met someone who saw and understood and was just like him. In fact, because he was weirdly nice to Soraya throughout he sometimes didn't even seem like a big evil villain and look, I shipped it. Again, that's my own enjoyment of villian love interests coming in; he wanted someone to understand him and I'm a bit weak for that. Because of that, I was hoping, perhaps, for some kind of resolution or atonement for him at the ending. He cut Soraya a lot of slack when I thought it seemed clear she was acting against him, and when he assumed power, there was not a mass slaughter and the onset of a reign of utter terror. This kind of complexity in both villain and antiheroine characters is something Barshadoust does really well: it brings to mind Mina from her prior book, GIRLS MADE OF SNOW AND GLASS (who was my favourite character from that book, unsurprisingly.)I realise I haven't talked a lot about Parvaneh, but yay for monster girlfriends! I did like her, yes, and I liked her romance with Soraya and yay for f/f honestly, but I don't feel deeply invested in Soraya x Parvaneh like I do with my favourite f/f couples. There was nothing wrong with the development of Soraya & Parvaneh's relationship (it was primarily moved into the second half of the book and didn't have that slow torturous unwind that I love in romances, tbf), but I also didn't really know enough about Parvaneh to feel closely connected to her beyond a superficial level and that affected how much enjoyment I took from things. I feel like I know more about the Shahmar than I know about Parvaneh, really. Again, this could have been solved if this novel was split into a duology and the development of the sapphic romance was given time to expand in the second book, but hmm. To be honest, for a standalone that's not overly long (just over 300 pages for my arc), GIRL, SERPENT, THORN is cohesive and well-developed. Not extensively, and like I said I wish it had been split into two books and the antiheroine potential of Soraya examined more, but Barshadoust has done really well in including it all. It works. It doesn't feel underdeveloped. The pacing is great. I loved the worldbuilding, and Soraya's rose garden. The Sleeping Beauty influences are minimal, but there are clear ones towards the end. I would definitely recommend it for people looking for a #ownvoices Persian fantasy.In addition, this book is my favourite book with snakes on the cover so far, besides NINTH HOUSE. I mean, LOOK AT IT. The white snake, the pink flowers, the thorns, the clean minimalism that is beautiful . . . yes.  > 4 starsI received an arc from the publisher in exchange for an honest review