I received an earc of this book from the publisher in exchange of an honest reviewCW: manipulation, murder, death, battle, intrusive thoughts.Since the day I finished Girls Made of Snow and Glass by Melissa Bashardoust, I have been looking forward to whatever book she’ll be putting out next. So knowing the premise of Girl, Serpent, Thorn combined with how much I adore her writing I really couldn’t see how anything could go wrong with this book. And I was 110% right, Girl, Serpent, Thorn sucked me in from the first page, took me on a whirlwind of an emotional journey and I loved every second of it.The most accurate way I can think of to describe Melissa Bashardoust’s writing is that it reads like a fairytale. That was the case with her debut and this sophomore novel proved to be no different. All of this to say that the writing still is jaw-droppingly beautiful, with many quotable lines. It’s also atmospheric and enchanting with just the slightest hint of a dark eerie feel to it, it transports you to the world of the book with the lush descriptions, makes you feel every single emotion the main character experiences and gets you invested in everything happening. The lore in this book is also so rich but equally easy to understand and to immerse yourself into. Everything was well thought out and meticulously put together, no element of it was vague or left to chance.The way I like to pitch Girl, Serpent, Thorn is “Persian inspired fairytale with a morally grey main character and monster girlfriends” and although that sums up the key elements of the story of the story, this book is so much more. At it’s core, it’s a story that explores loneliness and the way it can affect people, the way isolation can mess with anyone’s head, the way secrets fester, grow and keeping them, even with the best intentions can do much more harm than good. And how all of this eats at a person’s soul until they start wondering if there’s anything of them left, and if there is, if any of it is worth keeping. And that character exploration was my favorite thing about the book.Read my full review on my blog Word Wonders