AFTER READINGI write this review 3 months after finishing the book to give me the space to think about why I was so disappointed by this book so much. This review is definitely not representative of the majority opinion, and one I never expected to hold before reading this book. Don't get me wrong though. I was SO EXCITED for this book as it was the conclusion to what is a wonderful series. Maybe I was expecting too much, or perhaps I have changed as a person since reading the first three books, but this book fell flat on so many levels.1. At a stunning 824 pages, Winter is a book lover's dream book size, especially when the book is [insert positive adjective here]. When I found out how long the book was, I was so ready to enjoy and savor each page. Rather, I found myself lost, annoyed, and dissatisfied. The problem lied in that there was too much going on. Despite the immense page length + because of the cumulative nature of the series, it felt like the 8 main characters were fighting for page time to the point that no character had much/any development. The strength of this series lies in the characters vs. the plot. The strength in a fairy tale comes not from the predictability of the plot where good will always triumph, but from the characters you meet along the way. The plot, instead of giving the characters the space to grow, became the centerpiece of Winter. (don't get me wrong though. some books can pull off being centered on plot, but Winter is not one of them)2. This book was supposed to be about Princess Winter based off the title. But was it really though? Because I clearly did not see it. I loved the character of Princess Winter, but felt like no attention was given at all to her. Even worse, it felt like she was simply a means to advance the plot. So much potential ... and it was wasted. ^ this is a point building off my first point where the character of Winter felt like an additional tack to be tacked on to a series burgeoning with such rich characters.3. disclaimer: I am a sucker for romance, but literally ALL the main characters were paired up by the end. 4 couples. It is to the point where the romance felt too constructed and forced (to be honest).4. Wolf. Love the character, but because of the aforementioned problem of too many things going on, his character's journey felt so ... anticlimactic. There was this huge buildup throughout the entire novel over Wolf ... and then his journey and change ends up not serving any actual purpose or character development. Wolf, the character, fell victim to the plight of plot for plot's sake (the worst).5. This book was essentially a cycle of characters being captured and held hostage by Levana LOL.6. Death in books usually need to serve a purpose for me, but there was just so much senseless death in this book that honestly did not make any sense. Rather than feeling remorse, sadness, regret, etc. I instead felt confusion and had the reaction of, "huh" "like why". There is a literal massacre of the Lunar people where the violence and death reach a point of ludicrosity. And even worse, it is not even talked about or a major concern to Cinder or the other main characters ...7. Cinder, the main character of this entire series, did not feel like the Cinder I grew to love over the course of this series!! 8. This book is SO lookist. This was my biggest contention with the author. >:/ *commence rant* The end of the book makes it seem like Levana should be dethroned NOT because she has committed genocide, or tried and successfully killed thousands, if not millions of people through biowarfare, or even the other countless crimes that she has committed. NOPE. Levana should be dethroned because she is ... (wait for it) ugly. !!! LITERALLY WHAT !!! The main characters attack her lack of beauty and scars as if they are her main flaw. Well, I argue that they shouldn't be a flaw AT ALL. One of the main messages of the book was that everyone had inner beauty no matter what they looked like - whether they had "strange" wolf-like features or a ... mechanical arm. But that clearly flew out the window when writing this book. -_- *end rant*sad right now at the unfulfilled potential of a conclusion that could have done this incredible series justice. -W out.BEFORE READINGARE YOU SERIOUS?!!! 2015?! 1 whole year. BRB CRYING.1 whole year without this conclusion that I DESPERATELY need. 1 more year. *gasp* NEED MORE CINDER AND KAI. NEED MORE OF THIS SERIES. *gasping*