Fantastic end to a great seriesThis series actually got better with every book.  If you are on the fence after reading Cinder, I urge you to keep going. Each book follows a different couple but we still have the previous couples running around throughout the story arc. This time we follow Winter (Snow White) and Jacin (the Huntsman). Despite having no royal blood, Winter is the Lunar Princess. Like most Lunars, Winter has the gift of manipulation. Unlike most Lunars, she would rather lose her mind than manipulate her citizens. Winter's stepmother, the Lunar Queen (Levanna), set her sites on Emperor Kai (the Emperor of Commonwealth (essentially China)). Once she has Kai, and his country, in her clutches then she can finally start her bid for world dominance AND get rid of Princess Winter (permanently). But first, Queen Levanna must marry the young emperor.(Aside: Why Kai? He is literally half her age and his only contribution is of a damsel in distress. What was the point of all those tutors if all he manages to do is almost get married and kidnapped?) (Aside to the Aside: I really liked how all the guys (for once) were the ones being rescued in a fairytale)Cinder and her merry gang of modern fairytale friends must find a way to stop this wedding and save their planet. Told from alternating perspectives, we follow each couple - Cinder (Cinderella) and Kai (the Prince); Scarlet (Little Red Riding Hood) and Wolf (the Big Bad Wolf); Cress (Rapunzel) and Thorne (the Prince) - almost equally throughout the book. As before, Cress and Thorne are my absolute favorite couple - I just adore her bravery in the face of crippling shyness. And Thorne's charisma and adoration towards Cress just cinch this couple. Every moment where they got closer to the big kiss had me clutching the book and crossing my fingers. Wolf was by far my favorite character and finally we get his perspective - there's something so neat about getting the "monster" point of view. There was one thing that really frustrated me about this whole series:   Seriously. If you are going to kill someone - MAKE SURE THEY'RE ACTUALLY DEAD! Half the plot was someone finding out that an assassination didn't work and the supposed-to-be-dead character was wreaking havoc elsewhere.Overall - this was a fun end to a thrilling series. I'm really looking forward to the companion novel Stars Above!Audiobook Comments--Rather well-read by Rebecca Soler. She certainly had a way with words. Winter's sing-songy voice was fabulous and Scarlet's french accent was rather good. Though, if both Cinder and Kai came from the Commonwealth, futuristic China, then I thought there should be an Asian accent, no?If you are curious about Rebecca Soler, check Tucker the Reader's  interview!The Finer Books Club - 2018 Reading Challenge: A retelling of a classicYouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads