RE-READ AUDIO 2017. This narrator nailed it! 💕MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListI CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S OVER! I was so happy with the way this book went and the way it ended. Well, one part made me sad. There were parts that I wanted to yell, throw things, hulk smash, off with heads and so forth and so on, but I digress. I don't want to give out any kind of spoilers since so many people are reading this book right now or are going to be reading. So, this review is going to be filled with some excerpts from the book and pictures because that's what I want to do. Enjoy!I loved the dynamics between all of the characters. Each character in this book brings something to the table and have their own story and form of bad areseness! Not one minute did this book get boring. Everything in the book was layered in a perfect way, but this is just my opinion. I had one part I wished could have been more revenge filling for me, but as most of those that read my reviews, know I'm into the hulk smash, wipe the floor with them kind of revenge.. but I'm still happy :) •••••••••••••• EXCERPTS •••••••••••••"Did I tell you I saw snow when I was on Earth?"Winter stopped walking, her eyes going wide. "Real Snow?""Hello, friend." Winter knelt in front of Scarlet's cage. "Hello, crazy," said Scarlet.••••••••Scarlet unzipped her hoodie, trying to cool her burning skin. "Why does the queen want to kill you?" "She believes I'm a threat to her crown Scarlet snorted, an exhausted sound that didn't carry half as much derision as it should have. "Really? Has she ever heard you talk?"••••••••••••"I knew you were in love with him." Winter tapped her fingers against her elbow. "I can't understand why no one ever listens to me." Scarlet glared, but there was no ire behind it. "You're right, Winter. It's a complete mystery.""Citizens of Luna, I ask that you stop what you're doing to listen to this message. My name is Selene Blackburn. I am the daughter of the late Queen Channary, niece to Princess Levana, and the rightful heir to Luna's throne."••••••••••••••••"I am guilty of the crimes you listed," she said. "Kidnapping and conspiracy and all the rest of it. But these are nothing compared to the crime you committed thirteen years ago. If there is anyone in this room who is guilty of royal treason, it is the woman sitting on that throne." She fixed her eyes on Levana. "My throne."••••••••••••••••"Fine," said Jacin, turning to Thorne. "You want to carry her first or shall I?"Thorne raised an eyebrow. "Do you know how heavy she is?" Cinder kicked him. He huffed. "Fine. You first.••••••••••••••••Scarlet leaned against the regolith wall. "My father was a liar and a drunk. My mother left when I was a kid and never looked back. I witnessed a man kill my grandmother and then rip out her throat with his teeth. I was kept in a cage for six weeks. I was forced to cut off my own finger. I'm pretty sure I'm falling in love with a guy who has been genetically modified and mentally programmed to be a predator. So all things considered, I'd say I have a fair amount of scattered pieces myself."••••••••••••••••••"Fight with me," she said, when enough time had passed and neither she nor Scarlet had been devoured. "I will not control you. I will not torture you. Help me end Levana's rule and we will all have our freedom." Alpha Strom met the eyes of a handful of soldiers-the other alphas, she presumed-before fixing a penetrating look on her. "I cannot speak for the entire regiment," he finally said, "but I will accept your offer. If you swear to never control us as they have done, my pack will fight for your revolution." Some of the men nodded. Others growled, but Winter thought it was a growl of agreement. In response, she lifted her nose to the cavern ceiling and howled.•••••••• END EXCERPTS •••••••••••This book was a joy and I will miss reading further adventures, but the wonderful thing about books... we can always come back to them. FOR RYU......