4 “An awesome debut novel” Stars”Pirates are liars by trade and royals are liars by blood.”This is a fantasy novel in I had a blast while reading it, it was such a fun experience. And recently this has been a struggle since I am shifting my reading preferences towards the contemporary genre. I was so scared to be let down by this book, and I can gladly now say, I was not. The hype surrounding this book is crazy, but it honestly deserves it. An adventure with my lovely Monty. I was trash and kind of left Dianna, but it was still an awesome decision to pick this up.I am still in awe of the fact this was a debut novel, it was so refreshing and well crafted. I am looking forward to future works by Alexandra and see how she grows.The writing was beautiful. I usually tend to have a hard time getting into fantasies, but I was so immersed since the first chapter in this tale. It has a bit of fairy tale whimsical taste to it, which I was definitely fond of. I am also a big fan of the dialogues in between Lira and Elian, literally, it was like looking to people in a ping-pong match. A-D-D-I-C-T-I-N-G. The world building, captivated me. I want more. I know this is strictly a stand-alone fantasy novel, but I would totally read other stories in this same world (*cough* Sakura and Queen Galina *cough*). I am so overwhelmed by all the possibilities the author has within this novel, all the different lands are rich in possibilities. Even background stories of characters we met in this book, like Madrid. I am telling you, I had to constantly have a break to whisper, holy shit this is so good at the start when we were introduced to the whole siren mechanics and rule. I was mermerazid yeah it should have been sirenized but you get it.. The plot/ premise is all I never thought I needed. This was so much fun, and I loved everything about this epic adventure. I will say the ending was a bit disappointing for me. Characters/ the badass creations of Alexandra Christo’s imagination. It has been a while since I was such a fan of the main characters in a fantasy story okay maybe Penryn from angelfall, but shhhh.. Lira captivated me with her crudeness, pride, and savage attitude. I loved to see how she grew to feel, although I will not lie I was more fan of the ruthless Lira. And Elian was so relatable, his trouble to finding a place to fit in, I got you. I just loved the whole crew, the banter, and the loyalty. They were so fun yet dark and deep at the same time. Oh also, kudos for the Sea Queen imaginary, it was so weird, I loved it. Although my header image was not sexy at all. if you skip ahead you will see my cast for different characters lol.Romance, I was like yes but at the same time not into it. So it has never happened to me before that I enjoy the couple more as individuals than together as a pair. Like I loved them, I loved their tension and banter and everything that lead to more, but when that more arrived I was underwhelmed. #where is the climax? And I was also sad that when Lira found love, her badass edge died quite a bit. Why can’t we have plain mean ruthless main female leads without becoming soft after they fall in love?  Like I truly wonder if I had enjoyed more if she had just killed everyone at the end and rule, like yeah bitches. Maybe not, but I can dream.  I still liked it though, is just that kiss scenes was so plain, I was needy of more after all the tension built. In conclusion, this could have been 5 stars but the last 20% left me unsatisfied for some reason. But I definitely recommend it, especially since we don’t get standalone fantasy YA anymore.1 BONUS: First my giph cast:Lira: Elian: The Sea Queen: 2BONUS:Pinterest layout