I HAVE A HEART for every year I’ve been alive.There are seventeen hidden in the sand of my bedroom. Every so often, I claw through the shingle, just to check they’re still there. Buried deep and bloody. I count each of them, so I can be sure none were stolen in the night. It’s not such an odd fear to have. Hearts are power, and if there’s one thing my kind craves more than the ocean, it’s power.*insert drooling face here* I can't help it. I'm a wee bit bloodthirsty and I love these types of heroines. *excited squeal*Oh hi, remember me? It’s been a long ass time since I reviewed a YA book because I got sick of all the crappy books, but this book caught my eyes (BECAUSE SIRENS) and holy crap, it’s good!This is kind of a Little Mermaid retelling but with sirens, and instead of the main character wanting to get forked (no pun intended), our main character sings and seduces and kills the hapless men that fall into her and her cousins' trap.“It’ll enchant them all, but if you lay your focus on one, they’ll fall in love with you so resolutely that even as they drown, they’ll scream of nothing but your beauty.”“Normally the enchantment is broken when they start to die,” Kahlia says.*snickers*Our prince isn't a handsome, useless fool, but one whose life is devoted to killing sirens. The thrill of it never stops, even when the seas become deadly. Even as I hear the familiar song that strikes my soul and makes me believe in love like it’s the first time. The danger only makes me thirstier.Lira, 17-year old siren princess. Through a mistake, she "saves" Prince Elian and gets turned into a human.With a shuddering breath, I look down and see legs. Sickly pale things that are crossed awkwardly beneath me, dotted by bruises. Some in big patches, others like tiny fingerprints. And feet, too, with toes pink from the cold.My fins are gone. My mother has damned me. I want to die.It was a really good book. The setting is beautifully woven and explained so that it doesn't feel like a textbook. The characters are vibrant and fun and likable. There are no longing glances and pained flushes and beating hearts, just a slowly developed friendship and alliance that blossoms. I was entertained.This would make a pretty good movie.