2nd Read, April 2020 — 3.5 Stars1st Read, March 2018 — 4 StarsHonestly, it should be a crime that siren/pirate-esque books with as much (if not more) badassery as this one are terribly hard to come by. I need moreee of them in my life! That being said, this book is MARVELOUS. But my reread this time has also brought a couple things into perspective.“I’ve made a mistake. It started with a prince, as most stories do. Once I felt the thrum of his heart beneath my fingers, I couldn’t forget it.”To Kill a Kingdom offers an interesting take on The Little Mermaid tale by turning it into an adventure type of story adorned with themes of friendship, nobel quest, found family, and royal intrigue. It’s dark and brutal and stabby for a YA fantasy. Not to mention, our heroine is everything Ariel isn’t. So for me, that’s a plus.I loved Elian and Lira as individual characters. Whereas Lira is a murderous siren who enjoys ripping the heart out of some prince’s body, Elian is the adventurous, ruthless, and charming pirate who hunts creatures from the likes of Lira and wants nothing to do with becoming a king even though it’s his birthright.“Everyone is a blank canvas, waiting to be filled with the color of discovery.”The secondary characters (Elian’s crew) are a true blessing. They’re funny, loyal, and protective. And the ‘girl power’ friendship growing between Lira and Madrid is just #goals. The snarky banter and witty dialogues give vibrancy to the perilous task the crew is undertaking. The sea setting is an absolute aesthetic pleasure.Now in my opinion, the mission itself sounds dangerous. But everything about the journey just felt . . . easy with not enough stakes on the line? Even when the crew arrives at their final destination, I was expecting more hurdles, but it’s over in a blink. To add to that, the final battle is a little anticlimactic and quickly turns to mush with Elian and Lira’s PDAs.“I let it all fall away. My mission, my kingdom. The world. They exist somewhere other than in this moment, and now there is only this. Me, my ship, and a girl with oceans in her eyes.”I’m not picky when it comes to romance in this genre. But Lira and Elian are not doing it for me as a couple. I know people are calling it a slow burn, but I thought it was just so sudden. They have a great PLATONIC relationship development. Then it’s like the book decided to portray them as lovers at the last minute.(Read as an Audiobook)