OH SHIT!! This was far and away the best Beka Cooper book, probably because there is no continuity of character, tone, or content between the last book and this one. This almost reads like an entirely different series, one more grounded in Tortall with fewer extraneous characters and a defined quest narrative that I could get behind. Even the journal device has improved: this reads like a first-person novel, rather than a "journal." If you liked the first two Beka Cooper books (I mostly didn't) then you may have the opposite reaction to this last installment. I've been pondering why this series is so uneven. Is it because it's a trilogy, rather than Pierce's usual quartet? Is it because she no longer gets edited as heavily? I also did not care for the too-long two-part Trickster's Choice series, so it's possible that the explosion in YA fantasy (and the removal of length restrictions) has not particularly played to Pierce's strengths. I like the more compact quartets, and I don't know if I've really enjoyed any of Pierce's longer books.Anyway! I have so many thoughts on this. I loved the plot of this book, which takes Beka and her partner Tunstall on a search for the kidnapped prince of the realm. This narrowed down the cast of characters, gave Pierce another chance to show various parts of Tortall, and provided a truly exciting quest that had me virtually glued to the book. I thought the resolution (the slaves, not Tunstall) was a really interesting and neat twist to show how history led to the more familiar Tortall of the Alanna era. I still had a hard time with Beka's character - she's sort of the cardboard cutout of a Pierce heroine - but the rest of it was so fun I didn't really care. And here are the real spoilers: - I enjoyed the Farmer/Beka romance, for what it's worth, but it felt pretty hastily done. In comparison to the earlier Dale/Beka romance, this seemed to be written more true to the normal Pierce relationship, and at least the romantic partner made more sense (though the immediate switch flip where Beka starts calling Farmer "my man" was nauseating). I was not a fan of the Holborn backstory. It was hard to understand how Beka could have ever been in that relationship to begin with. If you took that out of the book, what would it have lost?- The magic in these books is incredibly sloppy, which is not something I'm used to. Farmer is basically the most powerful mage of all time, but undercover. He takes out both of the royal mages AND Dolsa at the same time, which is bonkers. He feels like a deus ex machina in almost every part of the plot. If Farmer was already experimenting with this type of magic, and was already talking about Sabine's wild magic, does it really take an additional 200 years for further experimentation to continue? It's like Pierce wants to be progressive (advance her world) at the same time that she's writing in its history (freeing the slaves) and that doesn't quite jive.- Tunstall's betrayal felt pretty disappointing and I think it did a disservice to his character. The last scene between Beka and Tunstall is heartbreaking. I liked that Beka got one book with both Tunstall and Goodwin, one with Goodwin, and one with Tunstall, and it really was a letdown that the Tunstall book ended like this.- I was never a huge fan of the pigeons and dust spinners (it seemed like two random ass things that Pierce made up to give to Beka). What I did really like in this book is that Beka becomes an explicit servant of the Black God. One of my favorite passages is where the Black God appears to her, multicolored - it's a great moment. I wish that the theme of Beka serving the Black God had been more consistent through the first two books. She could have had that as a motivation for serving as a Dog (alongside her own personal motivation) and maybe you could have cut out the dust spinners to focus on the souls of the dead. It felt like it came together in this book, but was still pretty hacky.- Likewise, I LOVED the ending passage where the king frees the slaves - it makes so much sense that there would have to be an inciting event of this scale - but I wasn't really sure that it made sense with Beka's character. This feels like a Kel thing, you know? I suppose I just have endless problems with Beka and her non-characterization.- Pounce is the absolute worst incarnation of Faithful. I can't believe he spends this series wandering around talking to EVERYONE, telling them all that he's a constellation. So weird. I wish that Achoo had been the only sidekick in this book.- The cult of the Gentle Mother is both rage-inducing and an interesting way to show how the lady knights of the realm disappeared. I enjoyed Sabine in this book, as always. She deserved better.- Rosto and his friends don't appear in this book at all. This didn't bother me because they felt pretty shoehorned in to the first two books, and I didn't really understand Rosto's attraction to Beka (and vice versa - that would have N E V E R worked out). But again, I thought it was weird that this Rosto arc was obviously set up and then dropped. I wonder if this really was planned as a trilogy from the start. It feels like there's a missing book between Bloodhound and Mastiff.