If you didn't know by now, I herewith officially inform you that I suffer from both acute and chronicle Sandersonsitis. It is highly contagious and cannot be cured. The symptoms, among others, are:► When someone asks you "How are you" you respond: "I feel like a brick made of porridge, thanks, and you?"► You address light eyed people as "Your brightness"► When someone you know behaves slightly differently you wonder when they were replaced by a Kandra► You think of flying objects as Allomants► You daydream about world hopping The list goes on, but you get the idea. If you suffer from any of those symptoms, please immediately take your medicine: Read more Sanderson books. Side effects may involve lessened awareness of your surroundings for prolonged periods of time, sleepless nights, an excessive amount of questions on your head, and occasionally a blown mind. Wait, what!?... This was supposed to be about Firefight. I absolutely loved Firefight. I loved the world in the second part of the Reckoner series - a totally flooded city full of spraypaint and strange glowing fruits where people live on rooftops, are happy and don't question. David, the protagonist, has really grown on me. He has a terrible fashion sense, still sucks at metaphors, and he never sticks to the plan. His total unpredictability made a lot of the charm of this series for me. Mizzy has become one of my favorite Reckoners MIZZY'S EXPLOSIVE BUNKER. ENTER AT PEACE. EXIT IN PIECES., and Dawnslight gave me a totally different picture about Epics in general. A lot of secrets evolving around Epics were revealed in this part, and Prof has become an even more interesting character than before because more pieces of his past were revealed and he struggled so much with his whole situation, he was totally conflicted and I am really curious to see how things with him will resolve in Calamity.I even started to like Megan a bit. All in all, Firefight was an action packed fast paced book that made me feel a variety of emotions - happiness, laughter, sadness, anger, surprise - and it made me think. It made me think because of its talk about alternate realities - I really loved those parts, they were totally fascinating to me and made me ask myself a lot of what, if questions. Recommended to YOU - read this book urgently if you haven't yet