I like a book that starts fast, and this book started incredibly fast. This set me up with high expectations for the rest of the book. And these were met completely. The speed of the plot never slowed down, not for one page. It was energetic throughout; it was just action upon action: fight upon fight. Until one big epic climatic event at the end, in the centre of the flooded city, that leaves us with a heart jerking conclusion. This was a very quick read. Not because it was short, but because I just could not stop reading it. The plot was layered with unanswered questions that I had to find the answers to. Many chapters ended with a frustrating one liner that compelled me to read the next. I had to read more. I needed to read more. So I did. “My name is David Charleston.I kill people with super powers.”David’s appropriate new name after killing the high epic Steelheart is Steelslayer. His grown quite a taste for the blood of Epic’s and he’s become quite efficient at killing them too. The novel starts, with his tracking down of Sourcefield, an Epic who wields electricity. With the efficiency of a military unit the Reckoners tactically engage her. Epics are humans with superpowers. High Epics have a reflex ability that makes them almost invincible, unless you know their weakness. And some of these weaknesses are very amusing: one is made vulnerable by his own poorly preformed rock music. Epics become consumed by the use of their powers; they take on a self-imposed sense of divinity the more they use them. This leads to a group of homicidal, super powered maniacs with a sense of self-aggrandisement that the Reckoners must bring down.Obliteration can absorb heat from his surroundings and release it in a blast that can and has levelled cities. This combined with his instinctive teleportation as a death wound draws near results in one tough Epic to kill. Worse, for unknown reasons, he has teamed up with Regalia. Regalia has murdered thousands in her claiming of her own city: New Babylon. She can control large bodies of water and can see through it at any location giving her an omniscient edge. The Reckoners must stop them.Prof is an Epic and David’s mentor. He is also the leader of the Reckoners, suffice to say, not many know of his powers. He supresses his powers to retain his humanity, but knows if he indulges in his impulses his will lose all sense of oneness and become the very thing he wishes to destroy. However, he can gift his powers (healing and force field production) to others without any consequences. David, naturally, benefits from this in his missions.Overall, this is the most exciting book I’ve read in a long while. The plot is fantastic; the characters are brilliant and the ending is the kind that makes you wish you could fast forward time till the release of the next book!I won this book, here on goodreads, as a giveaway. I was very fortunate as I got in ten days before release!The Reckoners1. Steelheart-  A vengeful 4 stars1.5 Mitosis- A time wasting 2 stars2. Firefight-  A heart jerking 4.5 stars3. Calamity- A terrible one star