Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsFirefight is a great continuation of the Reckoners trilogy.Once again, I wanna start with the bad. This book has the same pacing issues seen in Steelheart, lots of buildup for the first 80% of the book & then a rapid lightning storm of events in the last 20%. If you've read Elantris, think similarly to how that book is laid out.With Firefight, I found myself distinctly less interested in the plot by comparison to its predecessor. The plot is still awesome, it just isn't as awesome. During certain stretches I felt myself checking out or wishing for more confrontation between the characters to arise. Perhaps a bit of middle book syndrome?The events of the story meandered a little too much for my liking. That's not to say this book is slow, but because of how well the action-packed pace of the first book worked, I noticed where that momentum lagged a bit here.I appreciated that some of the main characters were fleshed out a bit more, and I saw growth in David as a person. But because of the first person perspective, there's a clear lack of connection between me & most of the people surrounding David. I also desperately missed two interesting main characters from Steelheart who were barely present here. Even with these few errors, this is a delightful book overall. The premise is so much fun! It gives an entertaining & nostalgic superhero vibe without being predictable or lackluster. I enjoyed the twists & turns, and I love watching David solve his way out of his predicaments. I commend Sanderson on creating David to be extraordinary without losing his humanity. He's got his set of skills along with his flaws, and it's wonderful to watch him sort through what he likes & dislikes about himself. Hate his metaphors all you want, I think they're super endearing!While my interest in the immediate events of this story waver in and out, my interest in the overarching dynamic of Epics vs. Humans is consistently high. The strongest point of these novels is the world building, and after the events at the end of Firefight, my curiosity about how the conclusion will play out is definitely piqued!