I've gone back and forth for a LONG time on whether to read this series or not. On the one hand, it's all about the fae - my catnip - and is proclaimed to be interesting and well-written. On the other hand... well, when I'm reading, romance is the lifeblood which usually keeps me sustained with a book, and reading the first half of this series was like slowly starving to death. ⤅ PLOTThe prologue takes place in 1995, where private investigator October 'Toby' Daye is on the trail of a potential kidnapper. Only, the kidnapper isn't human and neither is she. Toby is a changeling, half-human (her dad) and half fae (on her mum's side). For the last few years she's crafted a human life for herself, complete with a human fiancé named Cliff and daughter, Gillian. But Faerie still has its hooks in her. The kidnapper she's chasing is Simon Torquill, twin brother of Sylvester Torquill, Duke of Shadowed Hills, Toby's fae liege. Simon has abducted Sylvester's wife Luna and daughter Rayselline. It's up to her to get them back.Things don't go as planned, however. When she finally catches up to Simon, he turns her into a fish - a koi, to be specific - and leaves her to languish for 14 years in a pond in San Francisco's Japanese Tea Garden. Now to chapter one, which takes place in 2009. Toby has finally managed to break the enchantment and is now free, in body at least, if not mind. Mentally, she's still in a rut; the world moved on while she was a fish. Thinking her dead, Cliff married someone else, and though Sylvester got Luna and Rayselline back eventually, they both came back... different. Toby has spent the six months since she escaped the pond holding down a dead-end job in a grocery store and avoiding all her old friends. One of those old friends is Evening Winterrose, Countess of Goldengreen, a powerful fae noblewoman. Though she helped Toby adjust when she first returned, Toby has been dodging Evening too - until she discovers that Evening has been murdered, and with her dying breath, placed a curse on Toby to force her to solve it. Unless Toby does what Evelyn wants, she'll be joining her in death. This is the impetus she needs to snap her out of her stasis and realise that actually, she does want to live a bit longer. With the help of old friends - such as Connor O'Dell, a onetime boyfriend now married to Rayselline - and old enemies like Tybalt, King of Cats, who's always enjoyed taunting her - Toby is going to have to figure out what to do next.⤅ THOUGHTSNow, that was a longer plot summary than I usually do, which might indicate to you just how complex and sprawling Toby's world is. McGuire's worldbuilding is GREAT. In some ways, it's even better than Karen Marie Moning's, and richer than Holly Black's. Where those two have McGuire beat is in prose quality. Black's writing is haunting and poetical, Moning's is sharp and vivid. McGuire's is just sort of functional in comparison, in a way that doesn't really do justice to the subject matter of Faerie. Still, that's a relatively small bugbear. The plot is very gripping in a thriller sort of way, spiced with a ton of fantastical elements and thankfully limited info-dumping. Most of the characters are well-drawn-out and easy to visualise. Where this book falls down is... the romance. Or lack thereof.There is a romance in Toby's series, but it doesn't actually kick in until book six, which I'm pretty sure is longer than I've ever had to wait for a romantic payoff before. I thought the Kate Daniels series was slow burn! This puts it to shame. And the payoff isn't even really as good as it ought to be, after all the waiting - but that's a review for another book. Toby and Tybalt are good together, but on their way to each other, Toby takes a couple of detours first. You don't really see those detours in this book, but you do later on in the series. I'm unused to reading books where the heroine has an active and prolonged sex life with people other than the hero. I could handle it because the romantic elements are all so understated, but I didn't like it. I generally expect my heroes to be jealous enough that they can't stand seeing the heroine getting it on with someone else, but Tybalt isn't like that. He's also barely in this book.Anyway, I don't want to go on about the romance too long because I'd better save that for when I'm reviewing the rest of the series, but this is a solid start which certainly helped me get all the way to book 7 (and counting).