ETA: I've continued reading this series and want to point out I gave books four and five considerably higher ratings. Four stars each. _______________________________I can't make up my mind what to rate this. The unforgiving and frustrated side of me wants to saddle it with a two. The part of me that loves depictions of the fae, their powers and lands leans towards a three for effort.My problem with Rosemary and Rue is this: Nothing really happens. Sure, there’s a lot of running around. Bullets fly through the air, illusions and curses complicate things, and there’s a mystery to solve. However, the majority of the story concentrates on Toby getting repeatedly wounded, swallowing down the taste of blood and roses as she ineffectually seeks a murderer. There were a lot of stitches, poultices and headaches. There weren’t many clues to untangle. The answers were found through a taste-test that could have happened 100 pages earlier, saving Toby some scars and me some boredom.McGuire’s foundation for the story intrigued me. A PI changeling spends 14 years in a koi pond, forgetting she was ever bipedal and losing everything in the process. Her husband and daughter think she willingly abandoned them, human society declared her dead and gone, and her own guilt over a failed mission prevents her from reconnecting with her fae contacts. She’s afloat in a world that has moved on without her. She’s barely making ends meet and desperately feigning indifference.That’s where the interest ends. Toby stumbles through this investigation. Apart from an early trip to the victim’s offices, I never felt there was a trail to follow. The plot consisted of go here, get shot at, go there, get shot at, go home, get shot at…and no, I’m not exaggerating for effect. What began as a noir-ish escapade devolved into half-assed ideas and miles of blood-soaked bandages.The curse she’s under didn’t help matters. It seemed more a hindrance than a motivation. I didn’t feel its urgency as keenly as I was supposed to. It would threaten Toby at the oddest of times, seeming to prefer holding her back rather than allowing her to fulfill her task. I don’t like illogical plot points, and this was a major one.As for the protagonist, I don’t dislike Toby. I don’t feel much of anything for her. She’s very middle-of-the-road. She’s not clever, nor is she kick-ass or powerful. She’s sarcastic, but falls just shy of amusing. I felt no connection to her. The other characters land in the same category. None of them are standouts, with the possible exceptions of Tybalt and a few teenagers--they at least had some oomph to them as well as definable personalities.McGuire throws in a lot of nods to the past and to future story arcs, which is expected in the first novel of any series. Some could be compelling if handled correctly. Most notable is the original mystery Toby investigated--the one that resulted in her swimming around a pond for 14 years. I understand if McGuire wanted to acclimate us before exploring what came before; Toby’s return took a lot out of her and her adjustment hasn’t gone smoothly. However, Rosemary and Rue drained away most of my interest in the past. I’m not eager to follow Toby through another muddle of unhappy coincidences. I like heroines who use their wits to solve things. I need a build-up of tension and adrenaline to keep me riveted. I enjoy strong characters who leap off the page and hold me by the hand…or by the throat. October Daye’s method of blindly hurtling through shadows until she conveniently trips over answers lacks all of that. Perhaps I’m being harsher than necessary. Lately, I’ve read one disappointing book after another and it’s taking a toll. I’d expected to find a new favorite in October. Instead, I discovered a whole lot of meh that I’m not eager to return to anytime soon.