❝Knowledge is dangerous. Once you know something, you can't get rid of it. You have to carry it. Always.❞Wellllll. This one is a bit tough to rate and review. It was a great book BUT it definitely had its "huh???" moments. Let me start off by saying that this world is DENSE. Holy crap. I cannot put a finger on this worldbuilding. It's like I get it, but I don't. You read it and you're like WHAT IS GOING ON, but it just flows anyways even with a big question mark floating above your head. It's really a lot to take in. One look at the reference page in the beginning of the book and you can already see how much of a pain it would be to piece together the worldbuilding and how things worked.Worldbuilding aside, the concepts in this book are also super confusing and hard to grasp. I have NO idea what a dreamscape is. I don't even really understand what Paige is or does. Along with everybody else's abilities. I know NOTHING. I understand NOTHING. But I'm like, okay. Whatever. I'll go with it. I'm just hoping that things would make more sense or explained better in the the second book. Although I was ??? about the concepts and worldbuilding, I was still able to enjoy the storyline and how things unfolded.The pacing, overall, is pretty slow. Even at the end when shit starts to go down, I wasn't fully invested in what was going on or blown away sitting at the edge of my seat. The story moves slow but it's actually surprisingly interesting. Usually the slow pacing plus confusing worldbuilding would kill the whole thing for me and I'll end up DNFing but the storyline really saved this book. There were a lot of times when I was like HOLY CRAP THIS IS SO GOOD.I don't really have much to say about the book mostly because I'm still reeling and wondering what the heck I just read, and what EVEN was this worldbuilding. But overall, this was a pretty good start to what potentially could be one of my all-time favorite series. I could tell that Samantha Shannon has a lot more up her sleeve for her readers. And considering how this is a seven book series, I'm really curious as to how this story can span that many books. I mean, I'll almost be 30 by the time this series will be over lol!The Bone Season is a bit slow here and there, and the worldbuilding can be a pain to follow but I think many people will really enjoy this series. Although sometimes the story moves slowly, there was no dull or boring moment. I highly recommend sticking through the tedious, info dumpy first book because I can already see this series greatly improving with the later books! I've heard good things about The Mime Order, and many have said that it's a MAJOR step up from The Bone Season so I'm really looking forward to that!