LAST UPDATE: TATATATA! Added most of the very famous groveling letters of Cardan. You may find them hid inside my review!!!! You're welcome friends!I did everything to finish these series slower. I did have so many coffee, snack, wine, lunch, brunch, happy hour, more happy hour, oh no I’m sooo drunk I cannot feel my legs but I still cannot help myself reading this last book hour breaks! It didn’t work because the story already captivated my mind and I started scheming great schemes , biting my nails, taming the snakes (no spoiler but book makes you think they could be charming and friendly creatures), devouring more ice cream ( as one of my character of this book, -of course it’s VIVI!- revenge maybe sweet but ice cream is sweeter! I’m suffering from brain freeze after the second galloon but it’s totally worth it!) turning the pages excitedly.Pacing is incredibly fast, heart throbbing, head spinning, surprising, twisty, making you question who you are, what is date of today, who is the president (okay, let’s consider I didn’t ask the last question), after a little mind melting shock later, you come back and realize this book ended and you’re suffering from seven stages of grief but you need to skip all those stages and reach the acceptance and hope part because this book gave us satisfying, a little hmmm really, okay ending. If I have to compare it with the second book, Wicked King was so much better but at least we got our great conclusion and passionate love story, didn’t we?So let’s announce the awards for those amazingly developed characters:Best ensemble : “Court of Shadows”: Roach and The Bomb were my favorite, remarkable assassins. I have complex feelings about the Ghost because of the betrayal to my dearest queen and his cruel execution he conducted at the past. My spider senses tell me that in the future we’re gonna see him at another sequel and he will be paired with Taryn ( don’t say hell no! Read the last parts again, the author gave us the hints about it and Taryn has already her own novella so they can have her second one. )Victimized, being wronged character of the century: LOCKE!!! He was the best antihero you can imagine and I simply fantasized million ways to torture this sneaky bastard but when I read what the author decided to do to him, I didn’t find it fair! We definitely need a sequel to explain his story so my spider senses tell me again the author will write a new about Taryn.I don’t like her I don’t hate her and I didn’t forget her betrayal because I’m unforgiving witch with elephant memory awards: Taryn again! I know she can sew and create amazing stitches which helps saving lives but I still have second thoughts about her.Outstanding heroine in the field of faeries: Let me hear you chant for “GRIMAAAA MOGGGG!”! I loved this badass woman and her assisting to this spectacular adventure.BEST VILLAIN, MOTHER-KILLER, COMPLEX FATHER: MADOC! I liked the love-hate, dysfunctional relationship between daughter and father! He was remarkable, unforgettable and also at some ways likable villain. He mentored, raised Jude and now he started to be afraid of what kind of monster he created. FANTASTIC COUPLE: Cardan and Jude: enemies to enemies-enemies to lovers ( unfortunately they never became friends) As I see the nominations of romance books, I have to admit this complex, honest, passionate couple are going to be one of my all time favorite couples. ( Number one is of course Christian and Anastassia, okay, I’m kidding, I just want to check if you still give me your full attention!)MY FAVORITE CHARACTER OF THE BOOK: VIVI- your ideal bestie/sister/book sister, cool, smartass, down to earth, entertaining, loyal , great listener, problem solver. I wish instead of Taryn, she can get her own sequel. BEST SHOCKING TWIST: SSSS… Hearing the hissing sound, I didn’t see it coming and of course let’s clap the wisdom of Jude to find her own solution against the curse! Did it work it? Lips are sealed!BEST LOVE LETTERS: Those groveling wicked king’s letters enlightened my night and day!As a result I’m sorry they finished but I’m gladly ready to read anything Holly Black writes in the near future even it’s a postcard or shopping list !!!!!