“All power is cursed. The most terrible among us will do anything to get it, and those who’d wield power best don’t want it thrust upon them.”Please tell me that the only reason why this books was so short is that Holly Black is planning an elaborate new Faerie series with equally backstabbing, ruthless characters and vaults filled with rotten magic. Because I don't think I can make myself accept this was the last we heard of Faerie.The Folk of the Air books have easily become one of my favourite series in YA fantasy. The Wicked King is my favourite because it's undoubtedly Holly Black at her best. The Queen of Nothing was...not that. Don't get me wrong, I ate it up. It was fantastic. But it did not quite compare to what came before. And I can tell you exactly why: the book was too short. I mean, all three books were very fast-paced. That's part of their magic. They don't give you time to breathe. But with this one I often wished Holly would slow down, focus more on the details, set the scene. I fear that that's why a certain character literally fell victim to negligence.  I did not wait two books and one novella for Locke to die a very painful death for him to just die between two books without me being able to witness it. I deserved that. Taryn, too, never actually received the absolution she needed. She was this complex, unpredictable character. Until she wasn't. She became nice, docile even. Her character arc was thrown out of the window. And what for, I ask. It's been only a week since I finished this book and rated it 5 stars but the more I think about it, the more underwhelmed I become. I almost forgot how it ended. At the same time, I will never ever forget the finale of The Wicked King.But there were good parts. Amazing parts. Jude's fight with the redcap or her fall onto the banquet table (I secretly wish I could draw cause I'd create this (obviously) stunning portrait of Jude lying half-dead and dazed but badass-looking on the table with fruit like poisonous jewels and broken glass and smashed plates and my artwork would then be turned into the Netflix promo poster for The Cruel Prince, Season 3, but...I can't fucken draw.)Anyway, this book felt a bit like King of Scars, which I loved with all my heart but had some major flaws that I couldn't overlook. Fingers firmly crossed for a sequel series.Find more of my books on Instagram