This is a marvelous short fantasy novel - I absolutely loved it!! Very possibly my favorite of all of Sanderson's works that I've read.Wan ShaiLu, a magical forger of art and other valuable things, is captured and put under sentence of death for her crimes. But Shai is given an opportunity to escape her sentence: she is charged with magically forging a new soul for the kingdom's assassinated emperor, whose body had been healed but whose mind was permanently destroyed by the attack. Shai is given only a hundred days to accomplish this near-impossible task. And there are those waiting to kill her if she makes a wrong step, or trying to subvert her task for their own selfish purposes.It was all fantastic: the characters, the complex motivations, the layered storytelling, the intricate magical system built on Chinese-type stamps. There are some fascinating touches that add depth to the story. One of my favorite bits is how Shai uses her Forging talents to turn her grim prison room into a lovely chamber, including a cracked glass window:Attempts to Forge the window to a better version of itself had repeatedly failed; each time, after five minutes or so, the window had reverted to its cracked, gap-sided self.Then Shai had found a bit of colored glass rammed into one side of the frame. The window, she realized, had once been a stained glass piece. It had been broken [and] rather than repairing it as it had been meant to be, someone had put ordinary glass in the window and left it to crack. A stamp from Shai in the bottom right corner had restored the window, rewriting its history so that a caring master craftsman had discovered the fallen window and remade it. That seal had taken immediately. Even after all this time, the window had seen itself as something beautiful.Or maybe she was just getting romantic again.I love what this book has to say about the nature of art, and souls, and how people affect each other.He found himself weeping.Not for the future or for the emperor. These were the tears of a man who saw before himself a masterpiece. True art was more than beauty; it was more than technique. It was not just imitation.It was boldness, it was contrast, it was subtlety. ... It was the greatest work of art he had ever witnessed.I'm also amazed at how much Brandon Sanderson packed into 167 pages. I would have enjoyed reading more, but really, this felt like the perfect length for this story.