Audible Daily Deal Sale until 28Jan18 $1.99Buddy read with fellow Sandersonitis afflicted friends Athena & Alexa, and newly wrangled in buddy reader Katie4.5 Soulful StarsJust a reminder that Brandon Sanderson is probably my favorite fantasy writer I’ve read 9 full length books by him and 2 novellas, he consistently never disappoints so I might be a little biased, but deservedly so. His worlds, his imagination, his magic systems, his surprise twists always amaze me. The Emperors Soul was no different, it is a complete story with another strong female character and I was totally drawn into the story immediately.Even though this is set in the Elantris world it stands on its own. You could read this without knowing anything about the Elantris story line and be okay and probably enjoy it just as much. Again Sanderson made up an entirely new magic system and showed it beautifully throughout the story. He made characters that were complex and interesting as well as sympathetic. Shai is another strong female character and I loved getting to know her in this.
 No matter how good you were, someone was better. Live by that knowledge, and you would never grow so confident that you became sloppy.
Shai is a forger, she has been trained to use specialized images in stamps to rewrite the past and change things in the present. The Emperor has been damaged beyond repair and Shai is the only hope to create a new soul for him. It is the hardest task she has ever been given and if she fails her life will be forfeit, hell if she succeeds they will most likely kill her too. Shai must figure out how to finish her task and stay alive.
“We may feel in control, but we never truly are unless we understand people. Controlling our environment is no longer about blocking the wind, it’s about knowing why the serving lady was crying last night, or why a particular guard always loses at cards. Or why your employer hired you in the first place.”
Again another great story from BS, I could hardly pull myself out of the story to even submit a status update.If you have never read a Sanderson book and you are wondering ‘would I like this author?’ this is a great book to try and just get a taste of how wonderful the magic, worlds and characters he creates are.