Happy belated birthday! And here’s my digital work for celebrating the release of this beauty! https://www.instagram.com/tv/CdJSyyNp...Well, well, well! As devoted fan of “The folk of the air “series, this was one of the most anticipated first book of brand new and author’s first adult fantasy installment I have been longing for! I have complex feelings: there are so many pros and cons for making me decide how I truly felt about it!I think positive attributes of the book attracted me more than I expected!Firstly: when I read a book, I ask myself what’s more important for me? Pacing? Way of storytelling? Plot line? Structure? Execution ? Ending? Of course each of those elements are crucial. But in my opinion; character building is most important thing about a story. And it gets more important when you start new series because it’s long time commitment just like watching series more than two seasons. You patiently wait for what’s gonna happen to them at the next book, cheering for them, getting angry with them, being happy for them, screaming at them. They should be easy to connect so you can root for them.At this book hands down: Charlie and Vince were extremely likable characters! Charlie; a talented thief, still suffering from choices she’s made in the past, having low self esteem, thinking she doesn’t deserve anything good for her even though her new relationship with Vince is doomed to fail! She works as a bartender and helping out people at her spare times. And Vince, that devoted, coming from wealthy family, introverted, caring man who lost his shadow for a long time ago attracted me with his mysterious, inscrutable identity. I loved him from the beginning. The second thing I enjoyed about the book is; shadow magic: how shadow gets separated from the people to gain more power which comes with a very painful cost. The third thing I enjoyed is execution of the mystery: when Charlie is forced to get a compelling task related with her past which results with revealing secrets about shadows. She realizes she’s risked more than she can handle. But… there are things bothered me a little;Third person, flat narration was not great choice for storytelling. Dual or multi POVs worked so much better. The less dialogues and flat tone reminding you of long essays make you yawn just a little bit! The first half of the book was too slow and I guessed so many readers are not patient enough to go on and most of them dnf and drop it down. On contrary, the second half is so much faster with so many plot twists: so many things happened at the same time so it left me breathless. So balance of pacing was one of the weakest point of my reading. And we absolutely need more details about world building. But I’m still rounding up 3.5 stars to 4 it’s still promising start to a brand new series with surprising cliffhanger which kept me on my toes.I have to be honest: I could give additional star just for the last line Charlie said: I sighed so many times and hugged my e-reader as if I was hugging Charlie. ( you’ll understand me when you read it) I hope dear Holly Black won’t keep us too long! I’m so sure second book will be even better than the first installment.Special thanks to NetGalley and Macmillan-Tor/ Forge for sharing this amazing digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions.