Throughout her childhood, Charlie Hall was trained by a family friend in the art of deception.Young Charlie proved adept at every task that was thrown at her. Charlie ultimately became one of the most successful con artists around, but leaving that part of her life in the past, as an adult she works a normal job as a bartender.Charlie's world resembles our own, but it's so much more interesting. It's full of dark, mystifying concepts such as shadow magic and other things I never quite understood.One night at Charlie's work a violent incident occurs and someone ends up dead. This event opens up channels into Charlie's past. She has a mystery to solve.Book of Night is Holly Black's adult debut and I would say one of the most anticipated releases of 2022. I finished it a little over a week ago and have put off writing this review because I knew it would be a tricky one.This novel starts out slow, containing a lot of flashbacks to Charlie's childhood. Initially, I wasn't sold on that past perspective, but eventually I did come to understand why it was important to the development of Charlie as a character.Once the murder mystery begins, it begins to pick up. I definitely would say I was more into the second half of the book than the first.At almost 2-weeks post-completing this novel, I will admit, I remember close to nothing about the plot. There were quite a few characters, but the only two I remember by name are Charlie and Vince. I did enjoy how morally grey the characters, especially Charlie. I thought she was a solid main and I look forward to learning more about her.The magic system was interesting, although never fully explained. I definitely do not have a 100% grasp on the way this world works, but I am intrigued by it. The tone reminded me a lot of Ninth House.In short, while I can't sit and explain every plot point of Book of Night to anyone, I can say I enjoyed my time reading it.I would say if you enjoy dark Urban Fantasy stories with morally grey characters and a dangerous mystery at its core, you should pick this one up and give it a shot.Thank you to the publisher, Tor Books, for providing me with a copy to read and review.