I am sorry to say this book has been a complete disappointment to me, even more so because it was one of my most anticipated releases of the year.I have given it one star because there is nothing whatsoever wrong with the the writing style in my opinion. For a debut, the writing is pretty decent and the way the story is structured and various plot points are revealed is solid and logical. I would be inclined to read another book from the author if the topic was more to my reading taste.However, I've had so many issues with this book I have to list them in order to make some kind of sense out of my own impressions:1. This book is SEVERELY deceptive in its marketing. If I were to describe it, it would be a mix of Midsommar (a red flag right there, as far as I'm concerned) and The Handmaid's Tale with a bit of Sophie's Choice thrown in the mix. The book-eating element is completely irrelevant to the story, which is a shame because the premise itself is very interesting and, quite frankly, the main selling point (just read the summary). The overall impression I got is that Book Eaters is a very heavy-handed metaphor of literally any weird secluded oppressive cult you can find anywhere in the world, because the MO is usually the same as the one described in this story. 2. This is a personal preference but setting this kind of story in the modern times just didn't work for me at all. The way the families operated and the language they used felt very Victorian, and therefore any mention of motorcycles or video games (this was a particularly annoying one for me) did nothing but pulled me out of the story.3. It was predictable. It's really not that surprising given the actual topic of the book, but even the plot itself, while solidly built, never veered of course you can predict right from the start. I don't insist on twists in every chapter but this story needed either more substance, or better editing. It got repetitive and frankly boring very quickly. By the end, it felt like I was just beaten over the head with the same three topics over and over again.4. The LGBTQ+ rep. I am sorry but this was nominal at best. It felt very much like certain boxes needed to be ticked in order to reach the widest possible audience but there's very little actual queer rep in the book and it plays virtually no major role in the story or the character development. Either do it properly or steer clear, please. It is not a marketing pitch and it can be really hurtful if done sloppily.5. The character of Kai had very little agency. In fact, in many scenes between Devon and Hesta, it is easy to forget he's even there. I understand the story is shown mostly from Devon's perspective but at times, it read like Kai was simply an idea she clung onto and the actual boy was simply a piece of luggage she dragged with her and put down in order to speak to other characters.6. Plot holes! So many plot holes!!! Chief among them,  the way the families were supposedly stuck in the UK because they couldn´t manufacture paperwork. One of the families was involved in human trafficking, for crying out loud!!! Seriously?! 7. A minor gripe, pertaining solely to the audiobook. The narrator reads with Northern accent which makes sense because Devon is from the North of England, but she never switches it to anything else, even when reading the parts of other characters who are from different parts of the UK. This sometimes made the book really confusing as it wasn't immediately apparent who was speaking.If I'm honest, I would have DNF'd Book Eaters about 30% in, had it not been selected as a book club pick.If you are a fan of books about cults and their inner workings, you may very well enjoy Book Eaters. If, however, you are hoping to read an actual gothic fantasy horror, I'd recommend picking up a different book.Also, mind the trigger warnings, if there are any listed (if not, they really should be). None of the triggers are especially heavy or graphic, but it's still something to be mindful of.