so, I decided to write my review here.is it possible to give 7 stars for this book? because I really would have, if Goodreads allowed me.meanwhile, I read this series right in fasting month where I lay my head in the midnight, read this book and sobbed like crazy when morning came. and I was not exaggerating, because it turned my eyes got very puffy, red, and I didn't mind.first thing about so WELL DEVELOPED characters here:Bartimaeus never ever got me bored with his funny wits, eccentric behavior. he was the kind of character you missed so much, he told everything in his mind in a cynical, sarcastic, unique way. he hated human world so much, toward John Mandrake who forced him to do what he hated the most, but he did everything to save them because for Kitty, who reminded him of his best master, Ptolemy. and as time passed by, I could feel that despite his resentful, he loved Nathaniel and Kitty.though he would never say that.Nathaniel, always the same selfish guy like ever, but you couldn't blame him, he was young yet he had enough authority to made every guy big-headed. still, as time passed and problems swirled, he learned there was nothing about authority that he turned to his old self, the gloom boy, eager to be a grown-up, sad, and determined. he did everything he could to settle things even if it means he had to sacrificed himself.for one thing and another, he really was a VERY cool guy anyone ever imagine.Kitty. in the first book, she was... well, there was not enough of her. in the second book, she was the kind of bossy girl but loyal to her friends. and here in the third, she amazed me.the same strong girl after what she had been through, yet she determined to risk everything for her curiosity and justice. when she made up her mind, she would do it without hesitation.but then she helped her own enemy, risked her life to save the world and cleaned up the mess though she hated the government much.she was cool I wanted to cry.second, the plot.it was beautifully written, full of humor, romance, action, politic, the distaste of commoner toward authority, and everything. I couldn't imagine or judge what will happen next and it made me curious to finish this book, even didn't aware that I sobbed until the end of book.I could feel how much angry Kitty was toward the government, commoners distrust of authority, and the war that began crumbling everything in London. Bartimaeus affection toward Ptolemy, or Nathaniel emotions when the world he tried to keep much ruined.and the ending? so unexpected and beautiful! war was never any good, they had to settle everything that destroyed, Nathaniel had pay the government faults, Bartimaeus learned to trust a boy who had been an annoying master and a girl who risked her life for them, and the fact that Kitty had to face her life after the tragedy that followed her.I slightly liked tragedy, and this series had the best ending I've ever read.by the way, I heard Jonathan Stroud will release a prequel book about Ptolemy and Bartimaues in November. whooa, it feels like I'll get presents in November, like Harry Potter 7, and Bartimaeus!I can't wait! :D