Sooo, after finishing Switched I realized 2 things:1. I'm officially in love with Amanda Hocking2. Trolls are hot(3. I also suspect that I am a troll due to the hair thing, but I haven't found any proof yet. I'm looking on it.)“Did you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers, and I'd just be like, yeah, that sounds right.” Wendy Everly, a girl whose mother tried to kill her when she was six and always thought that she was living someone else's life finds out that she is indeed living someone else's life, because she is a changeling, a child that is exchanged in secret for another child. Of course there is more, and she feels quite astonished when she is also told that she is a troll (although she isn't green), a royal one, the heir of the Trylle kingdom. So Wendy has to move into a palace with a cold mother when everyone prays for her downfall and another tribe wants to kidnap her for reasons unknown. And she has to fight her feelings for her sexy tracker/bodyguard, Finn.It is fun. It is so much fun. This series is the reason why all my friends call me troll-lover, but I'm not particularly concerned because if Finn was my lover, they would be concerned. And jealous. *cue evil laughter*I must admit I never thought I would want to be a troll or that a writer could make them such interesting and fascinating creatures, but Amanda did it! I loved the fast pace and the mythology and the twists in the story, Switched was an easy and entertaining read that made me forget stupid reality and stupid reality stuff!“I look at you because I can't look away Wendy.That's kinda creepy.I will work on being less creepy then.” I found Wendy irritating most of the times because she kept on acting before thinking and she was quite immature, but there were signs of development, plus her life was not an easy one, so I'm giving her the benefit of doubt. But I can't understand why everyone is keeping her in the darkness! Wouldn't everything be easier if they just told her what she needed to know in order to acclimate to her new life and try harder to rule someday? Just saying! I liked Finn, but I don't like the way the things between them are heading,even though I enjoyed the tension. Their love is not a healthy one. Tove is becoming one of my favorite characters, and so are Willa, Matt and Rhys! Elora, well, I'm not that fond of her but I bet there is an explanation for her behavior!To all paranormal fans all over the world, Trylle is an exciting world to dive in!!