2 StarsOverview: “Did you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers, and I'd just be like, yeah, that sounds right.”So trollsOnly not those.And not those. Instead:Wendy has spent her entire life feeling as if she does not belong. Her mother attempted to kill her when she was six-years-old, claiming she was a “monster,” and since that time, Wendy has moved from place to place with her loving brother and aunt. Until she moves to a new school and meets a mysterious new boy with a striking eye color (black) and a penchant for climbing in her windows at night, who dutifully informs her that she is actually a troll who was switched at birth. Remember 2008-2009? When Beyonce first let us know that if we liked it we should have put a ring on it and Britney repeatedly told us what she thought of womanizers. Michael Jackson died and Obama was elected US president.This is also when Twilight became super popular and there was this surge of Paranormal YA. This was initially published in 2010 on the heels of this, and out of that wave of paranormal books this does stand out. It is fairly original, has a fun premise and moves quickly. If I’d read this back then, I probably would have enjoyed it. But looking at it now, it’s just a string of paranormal clichésPros:Like I said, this is fairly original in some aspects. The overall ideas about trolls (or Trylle, as Wendy’s ‘tribe’ is called) and changelings are very well thought out and creative. The pacing in this was great! It moved very quickly without being confusing and it was very much a short, action-infused read.Yay for MC calling love-interest out when his staring is creepy. Cons:Alllllll the clichés:-	“I’ve never fit in anywhere!”-	Mysterious new boy with ‘striking’ eyes. -	He’s climbin’ in yo windows-	The lost princess!-	Insta-love-	With hints of a love triangle!-	“My hair is so wild and my eyes are so plain but everyone who sees me is in awe of my beauty!”Okay, but Wendy’s brother really freaked me out. He’s portrayed as a ‘loving, but protective’ sibling, but what he actually does is scream at Wendy when she does something he doesn’t approve of and threatens to “kill everyone at the dance” for upsetting her. This is not okay. I understand Wendy’s relationship with her ‘mother’ is complicated, but she kept flip-flopping. One paragraph she would call her a “good mother” and the next say she was a horrible woman who only ever attempted to murder her. This was never really addressed in any nuanced way, only Wendy making alternating exclamations. In Conclusion: A fairly original idea that gets bogged down with clichés.