Hold your horses and fix your faces, I know you are rolling your eyes at me with this 3-star rating. I rolled my eyes. Not at myself, but at the book. It’s just a matter of opinion and personal taste and my taste wasn’t taking into consideration when the author decided to write a plot-driven story. I know, the nerve. This is just a me thing. I will never enjoy a story when the plot overtakes the development of the characters, even though I liked the plot in this case. But so much of this story relied on the plot and after a certain point, I wasn’t a fan. Why should I care for the plot when I hardly grew to care for the characters? They were hardly given any focus. I can admit that the plot was exhilarating and where the strongest focal point lied. I enjoyed the world-building and seeing the stakes that were present in this Hunger Games style battle they were participating in.What made it even better is that this is a world of vampires. With wings. I will always have a thing for those leeches. 🥰However, I can’t say I understand the origins of the games and why it needed to take place. Or what made Oraya strong enough to handle these vampires when she’s a mere ‘human’. Or that I even understood the world. Because what was the conflict exactly between the two clans/factions?What I had a major issue with was the characterisation. It was lacking. There was not a lot of depth to them, which honestly just annoys me. I did not understand what motivated our main character, Oraya. Yes, she wanted to win to become stronger but had we had more information as to why she wanted to save her hometown, I could’ve gotten on board with the plot. I don’t know if this was intentional, but we really could’ve benefitted from a Raihn POV. Heck, Vincent should’ve had one. That man was a pure mystery and I needed more. I needed layers, backstory, something more that would’ve allowed me to connect to the characters on a deeper level. The hints at background we did get were very few and far in between and we know there’s more to Oraya than what we have been given.Particularly when it comes to her powers, where she came from, Vincent rescuing her and her upbringing and training after the fact. But we weren’t privy to that. I would’ve loved to have seen something similar for Raihn in those regards too.This is not to say I didn’t like them. I liked them. And I liked the romance. There was a particular scene that had me swooning. 🫠🤤 But it never really stepped into the love territory. There was too much of a disconnect, simply because there was no opportunity given for the reader to really understand the main characters. The plot never allowed for that to happen. I wish we had more of a gradual process of the character development incorporated into the story. And that there was a better balance between the plot and characters. Book Two better deliver since the ending made things interesting. And Oraya better get on board with things asap!