"I would beg," he murmured. "For you I would. You have fucking destroyed me, Oraya. Do you know that?"PERFECTION!!! This book is excellence embodied! I haven't read a fantasy romance this good in a long time. Just all the stars, every single one! This book is about Oraya, the human adopted daughter of the Vampire King, Victor, trying to survive in a world of predators that's designed to kill her. She enters a tournament a la Hunger Games style to try and win a wish from the Goddess Nyaxia and change her fate. To survive the tournament, she has to team up with Rhain, a vampire from a rival clan and truths start to come out altering the way she sees the world around her and her loyalties. This book had me in a chokehold from the prologue!!!! The writing, the characters, the plot, the pacing, the tension everything in this book is done to utter perfection. The way the story unfolds itself to the reader is so good. I am going to read everything this author has written bc I am obsessed with her writing. The relationship dynamics in this book are so layered and complex. The relationship between Victor and Oraya is so heart wrenching. I felt so much for her struggling with her feelings for him. Rhain and Oraya are just unmatched. The banter, the push and pull and the chemistry is next level good. I am totally in love with both of them, a new favorite duo for me absolutely. There are too many things about this book that I loved and if I wrote them all out this review would be as long as the book so I am just going to leave it here and wait on pins and needles until the next book comes out in April! I may just take that day off to read it! Do yourselves a favor and pick this up! 💙💙💙UPDATE RE-READ bc the audio just dropped!!! 💙💙💙Update on the update!Tapped out of the audiobook at chp11. What in the Daisy Mae is that voice?! That was not it! Switching to my kindle to finish my reread! FINISHED MY REREAD!! IT"S STILL PERFECTION!!! I am vibrating with excitement to get my hands on the next book in a few hours!!