The ultimate battle of humans versus vampires is told in the story of, ‘The Serpent and the Wings of Night’, where the struggle for survival and affairs of the heart are set to test and conflict with the rules of this ‘bloody’ game. “Guard your heart” with your life and cherish loyalty when you find it, because this is a contest among three great Houses and dozens of warriors looking for that coveted title as the ultimate victor, but there can only be one survivor.In summary the things I enjoyed most about this book was the ‘Vampire-ology’ and unpredictability of that ending although the MC’s survival was probably assured – although not in this way. I confess to loving any story about vampires whether it be ‘Fantasy’ or ‘Horror’, and this was such an exhilarating and captivating read. An addictive story of betrayal, love, ambition, friendships and ultimately survival. What I disliked least is that it read like ‘Hunger Games’ with a lot of the same ‘bloody’ battles, savagery, and bloodlust on display through and sometimes dominating the story, where the contestants had to learn that being ruthless was not the same thing as being fearless. And they needed both to survive.Overall, this was an excellent and immersive read, with superb characterisation and brilliant imagery enhanced with imaginative twists and additions to vampire-ology that had me hungry for more. The Plot Dozens of the most powerful warriors from all three houses—the House of Night, the House of Shadow, and the House of Blood enter this epic contest. Many of whom would die in pursuit of the title, yet all houses had to sacrifice their best combatants or fear losing their status. Pairing up with Raihn, Oraya must succeed in eliminating her opponents through each of the trials but this slow burn romance is predictably set to challenge everything they stand for work, desire and have worked for. A highly recommended book.Review and CommentsI personally enjoy contests and battles that require the cunning mind, the forensic planner, the clever strategist, and the courageous heart. These trials were packed with action and brute force, and possessed less of the elements I truly enjoy in these Fantasy books which is why it lost a point for me.Along with the other points mentioned. The characterisation and particularly that of Oraya won me over though. Oraya is a really likeable character, who we are first introduced to as a newly orphaned child. A young girl adopted and taught by the Nightborn ruler, but I think this quote best describes what she brought to this wonderful dark fantasy. “Power. Strength. I could never be afraid again. I could make myself the predator instead of the prey, the hunter instead of the hunted, the ruler instead of the subject. I could make myself a monster to fear. I could make myself something to remember, instead of another fading mortal life to forget.”One of the best fantasy romances. A wonderful multi-layered plot with an unpredictable ending for a character that we probably knew would survive. Endearing and likeable characters. A dark fantasy that was vivid, imaginative, and alluring but also brutal and action packed. Wonderful just less of these endless contests till death please!!!