For the Wolf is a reimagining rather than a retelling—loosely based on Beauty and the Beast with elements from general fairytales—which worked great for me. The people in Valleydan believe in kings as their gods. These kings were captured centuries ago, and Valleydan sacrifices their second daughters in the hopes of bringing them back.“The First Daughter is for the Throne.The Second Daughter is for the Wolf.And the Wolves are for the Wilderwood.”Red meets the wolf and everything changes. The legends are only partly true. The forest is suffering too. There are monsters, but not the same ones they are taught to fear. Magic that has rules and demands in order to keep the balance. I appreciated that the Wilderwood is written as a living character. An eerie and blood-thirsty forest you can bargain with. Of course, every bargain has a price. “Around them, the rest of the Wilderwood watched, still and silent and somehow mournful.”I was drawn to Red and her sister, Neve, because of their rough edges. They are unapologetic, and they show their true emotions caring little about how the people in Valleydan see them—about how their mother, the queen, sees them. I don’t always enjoy the ways sister relationships are depicted in fiction, but this relationship was layered: It clearly shows the deep connection the sisters share, and the lengths they would go to protect each other. I really appreciated that the characters’ emotions were so present in this book. I felt for the characters and understood the reasons behind their decisions (even when some of those decisions frustrated me). “…if her destruction was imminent, she’d rather be the architect than a bystander.”The Wolf, or Eammon, is my favourite character. His story with Red explores the themes of duty, guilt, choice, and love. The slow-burn romance is done so well. I loved reading about their bond. Tender moments between them. Banter as they slowly get to know each other and trust each other. The way they choose each other, choose to help each other, and choose to love each other. She gave him the shaky edge of a smile, shattering before she could make it whole. “Two terrible confessions in one night.” “Nothing about you is terrible,” Eammon murmured.Whitten’s writing is descriptive and lyrical. The dark fairytale atmosphere is there, even though the world building could’ve been fine-tuned to make it a bit clearer. I enjoyed Whitten’s writing for the most part, but this does read like a debut novel. I am not saying that to be mean; It’s just true when I consider the repetitive sentences and inconsistent pacing, which occasionally took me out of the intriguing story. A couple of the twists were easy to predict, particularly the true villain in this story, but I still had a great time reading the way things unfold. That being said, a couple of twists around the 80% mark seriously shocked me—they were pretty sinister. The writing during the last 25% of the book was so good too.“People with power resent losing it, and too much power for too long a time can make a villain of anyone.”Overall, this was an enjoyable read. That cliffhanger at the end does make me want to read the second book: Neve’s story. I recommend picking it up and reading the content warnings beforehand.*edit/forgot to mention: There's no spice, just kissing. I would've liked a bit more, but I still enjoyed the slow-burn romance.