The Wolf smells like a library. I repeat, Eammon smells like a library. This is a hard book to rate. I'm not at all attached to For the Wolf, but at the same time, I loved the creepiness of the Wilderwood, the way some of the characters slowly went mad, and the atmosphere of Eammon's house. For the Wolf follows Red, the Second Daughter, who is sacrificed to the Wolf in the Wilderwood. The people of Valleyda are hoping that in return, the Wolf will release the Kings. The problem? The Wolf is just a man, and there's more going on in the wood than anyone suspects. Eammon, the Wolf, made this book a lot better. He's so selfless and caring. He knows what needs to be done, and he will sacrifice himself to protect others. He's haunted by the past, but he isn't an annoying brooding "I have a tragic past which excuses all my actions in the present." He is aware of Red and makes sure she's safe. "You know what happens to heroes, Wolf-pup?" The thing reared back, no longer trying at human shapes, just a lick of darkness studded in bones and twigs. "They die." I loved the themes of the dangers of religion and obsession. Neve's descent into madness was so interesting to watch. The way the people of Valleyda were brainwashed by religion was frightening. Both of these arcs were so interesting. I didn't like the random visions characters had that conveniently told them when someone was in trouble. There wasn't really a good explanation. Also, Valleyda wasn't developed. I wanted to see more of the village and the culture. However, this may have been good for the book. The mystery around Valleyda was intriguing. I'm not taking off any stars because of the lack of any worldbuilding because I'm not entirely sure whether worldbuilding would have helped the book or not. Overall, this book didn't have the spark I was looking for, but it's a solid story about two sisters separated by a forest that's alive. 3.5 stars Red was a warped puzzle piece, her changes nearly too subtle to see, but enough to keep her from fitting back into the place she'd left.Disclaimer: Please don't read this book if you're sensitive to scenes where the characters cut themselves. They access magic through their blood, and this may be triggering for some readers.credit