Luce stepped into the Announcer, leaving her Daniel behind, trying to understand everything, and to destroy the curse. From Moscow to Milan, she travelled alone, had no idea of Daniel following her. Daniel was always a step late. In Moscow, Luce found out that all the angels, Cam, Gabbe, Arriane, Roland and Molly were also there. They had good knowledge of her fearful fate.In Helston, England, 1854 she met Bill, a tiny gargoyle inside her announcer. Bill helped her adjusted herself with the current situation, with outfits and bits of information. But Bill hid himself when the angel was around. One thing that was confusing. Roland seemed to sense Bill while Arriane did not. Luce continued with her journey to Tahiti and Prusia. In Prusia, she witnessed Daniel’s pain. Daniel ignored the whole world and fell to sleep after Luce’s death.In Lhasa, Tibet, Luce was devastated watching Daniel tried to kill himself after Luce’s demise. It was the worst experience for Daniel, to watch Luce met her demise by only talking to him. Daniel ‘s agony made him jumped from a cliff, broke all his bones and stayed motionless until Gabbe found him, made him vowed to never lose hope, to never destroy himself again.Daniel was arrested in Paris, France, for ‘killing’ Luce, Louis XV future mistress. He did not want to free himself but stayed in misery at The Bastile, waiting for a new Luce to arise. In England, playing Anne Boleyn, Luce burnt the Globe, the famous theatre. Luce Also realised that Daniel’s curse has been worse than her.After losing Luce in so many places, Daniel stepped into Central Greenland, year 1100. At that time, he felt suffocated, and was so weaken by his broken heart. Both sides of angels were pleading him to join them. Gabbe was for heaven and Roland for Hell. He was so devastated and his future self had come to save him, to reaffirm his choice, to choose Lucinda over everything. In Chichěn, ITZÁ, Luce found out that she will always know Daniel, know his soul, although Daniel’s appearance was different from his usual self. It never matters since their love will find each other, regardless their physical forms. Luce witnessed Daniel true self for the first time. Daniel arrived in Bethlehem, Israel, where Cam had his heart broken by Lilith. That was when Cam crossed to Hell’ side. Daniel befriended Miles and Shelby there when he realised that regardless their recklessly idiotic way, Miles and Shelby had only tried to help. In his announcer, Daniel met Scale, the angel who sides Heaven Scale showed Daniel the place where Luce stepped out. Luce was in Memphis, Egypt, 3100 BC. She was Layla, who fell in love with Daniel, the army commander, her princess’ fiancée. Bill told her to kill her soul with a starshot, to free Daniel from his misery, for their cursed fate. The starshot will kill her immortal soul and will return her into her old self. But Daniel’s love has prevented her from doing so. Daniel’s love made her believed that one day they would be freed from the curse. Bill was furious with that and was changed into something bigger. His true self was Lucifer and he was so furious of Luce’s failure.Daniel came to the Heaven Gate, where the angels were gathering, where the roll call was conducted. That was a very important time when the angels had to choose their side, Heaven or Hell with Lucifer, when Daniel old self had chosen Lucinda. He was punished for that. Lucinda, his love will never meet her adolescence, will die again and again. Daniel then begged for clemency, saying that some millennium had passed and he now asked for mercy. The Throne granted his plea and Lucifer was so mad with that. Will Daniel able to save Lucinda? What will Lucifer do? What will happen to all the angels?-------------------------------------------------------------------I love the story. The only thing that annoys me that there was Sophia in the beginning and that was all. Nothing more about the outcasts through the whole story. It was confusing. But Ms Kate had done an excellent job with the series. Fallen is the introduction where we can meet Daniel, Luce fallen angel. Torment is where everything went into a mess, where Luce doubted their love and cursed fate. Torment is what it is named. A torment for its readers.Passion is where we can understand thingsRapture will be fantastic with its ending.Previous: This is the book that I am dying to read. Torment left me with sadness. I can understand why Luce needs her 'alone' moment to understand more about who she was. But it's still heart breaking....to have Daniel left behind that way...I could feel his pain, sadness and loneliness. It's good to know that he will not stop and will fight their terrible fate. I just love love love Daniel Grigori.