Okay, so I found Passion, the book 3 of the Fallen series in library and decided to give this series another try. The first two books had given me little satisfaction, with the romance between the two main characters so paper-thin, the pace of the story so off-beat, the plot so shabbily constructed and the mythical and historical references being so water-downed (I almost wanted to say 'bastardized' instead of just 'water-downed', but it sounds a bit too harsh so I changed it), I just didn't dare to put my hope up.Two years ago when I first saw Fallen in the bookstore and read the introduction on the backcover, I mistook that both Daniel and Luce were once angels before they fell from God's good side and were made to reincarnate as mortals throughout history, unable to be together in every single incarnation as the punishment for loving each other, because angels were supposed to love only God and nothing else. (See? I'm too heavily influenced by Angel Sanctuary, hehe.)In my mind, the setting above could have made such interesting story; with two mortals struggle to stay together against the mighty forces of Heaven and Hell which threatens to tear them apart, the mortal leads can even discover a few supernatural abilities from their angelic origin along the line, so to speak. So you can imagine my disappointment when I found out Fallen is just yet another 'helpless-human-girl-in-love-with-a-beautiful-powerful-mysterious-supernatural-guy' YA novel.To tell you the truth, the overused human!girl and supernatural!boy setting isn't the biggest turn-off, what I found most disappointing is how the love relationship is played out, and the lack of explanation in……almost everything.More confusing still, is the fact that in book 3, the author mentioned Luce's incarnations encountering Daniel in different forms (a Mayan teen, a young rebel in ancient China, etc), even remembering growing up with those past versions of Daniel before she died. It really confuses the hell out of me. Isn't Daniel an immortal? How would an immortal have the chance to grow up? Please, Miss Kate. A bit of explanation won't hurt anyone.Call me a whinny, I found the idea of the names of Luce's incarnations(even those from thousands years ago) all sounded similar with Luce or Lucinda utterly hilarious. It's also hinted that Luce's original name when she first met Daniel was actually "Lucinda". Oh, seriously?  So people's names have remained unchanged throughout history? HA!Passion opens with a prologue with Miss Sophia and her gang being reintroduced to the story; and the scene is a good one, the suspense is planted, the descriptions on different characters (most of them supernatural) are nicely played out. But after that I dove headfirst into Luce's time-travel into her past lives, then I felt as though I was being lured to walk in an endless, inescapable circle of deja vu.With Passion, we are made to travel alongside Luce through many of her incarnations, many of those past lives are well described and the details are remarkable; but unluckily her past encounters with Daniel aren't very interesting. Since I'm not much of a fan for romance, the repeated circle of Luce's past incarnations meeting Daniel, falling deeply in love with him the second they laid eyes on one another (by the way, I'm also a non-fan for love at first sight), and then the past-Luces died by bursting into flame; grows tiresome to me pretty fast. 120 pages onward, the only thing kept me reading is the promise of Luce finding some answer and solution to the curse between her and Daniel.  My old questions to the series  are still with me. How on earth could Daniel bear to see his supposed love of eternity burning to die for so many times without ever chose to let her go, leaving her behind so the poor girl might have a chance to mature, fall in love with someone else, start a family and then grow old like everyone else did? I mean, by the time we met Daniel in Fallen, he seemed to already give up the hope of changing Luce's fate, so might I ask, why should he still be hanging around? Why he couldn't at least try to exit Luce's life once he saw her?Questions, still so many questions.First I need to tell you I distaste the idea of Luce going back in time to figure out her long history with Daniel in the middle of a battle, when the fallen angels were fighting to protect her. I mean, what kind of heroine would do this in a battle when her friends were fighting for her? Just give me a break!Why should the entire book focus solely on Luce's past incarnations? Couldn't Miss Kate just distill the entire reincarnations thing and Luce's encounters with Daniel in a couple of chapters and/or flashbacks instead of spreading them across an entire book of 420 pages?For example, the Blue Bloods series by Melissa de la Cruz, also deals with fallen angels and reincarnation, but the author never spent an entire book to talk about the past incarnations of the lead couple. It would be so damn ridiculous and boring.Plus it's puzzling to see Luce (and then Daniel) stepping into different time-spaces (where she isn't supposed to visit), interacting with different people (who she shouldn't have met) in the past, changing things and causes of events (which aren't supposed to be interfered) without once messing up the time-space balance of universe. How can it be possible?The theories of alternative universes, loophole, time travel and other Sci-Fi goodies (and even Stephen Hawking) kept running through my head when I read the book. I must confess I'm no expert to time travel, but my limited knowledge about the subject tells me that at least half of the stuff Miss Kate written in her book, doesn't add up. For example, does anyone remember what those Back To the Future movies tell us about time-travel? That interfering history is dangerous? It's one thing to see/experience passively your past-life's events in flashbacks, unable to change anything; but it's another thing for a person to actually go back in time, interfering with people and events so much like Luce and Daniel did without screwing the future up. Give me a break! Okay, I'm not entirely against the idea of time travel, but the more Miss Kate wrote about it, the more the time travel stuff looks at odd with the entire fallen angels, war between Heaven and Hell setting. Not to mention Luce getting a magical time-travel guide Bill, who just came out of nowhere but Luce still trusted him to the 100%, looks too much like a deus ex machina.Plus it's mentioned that the past-Daniel met with the future version of Luce and even HIMSELF for a couple of times in the past, but it was never mentioned in the first two books. Are you kidding me? How could a person ever forget he had been visited by his future-counterpart!?As characters, Luce and Daniel are as plain and dim as usual; so once again, the other fallen angels became the saving grace. We can always rely on Cam, Roland and etc to make the reading easier for us. I like that Luce is less annoying in this book, but sadly I found hardly anything for me to root for her.PS: finally in around pg. 100, it's mentioned that Roland is a black character, took you long enough, Miss Kate.After Luce experienced one of her past incarnations burning to die in Daniel's arms, she commented that 'it's a necessary, beautiful release'. Oh,Com'on. From that point onward I decided that I hate this girl. The more she mentioned how much she loved Daniel, his beautiful face  and how much she wanted to be with him, the more I couldn't stand her.In the book, I got annoyed by Daniel's 'I'm nothing without Luce, I choose her over everything else' attitude. My goodness, does this guy have any meaning or purpose of life outside Luce!? And he had done a few things which makes me question his morality, e.g. he burned an entire Mayan tribe to die in order to save the past-Luce, including the girl's own family, doesn't sound very angelic, isn't it?I read the last few chapters, and then the identity of the villain is revealed—it turns out to be a complete non complex. And I feel very bad for the villain for having to deal with Luce, his conversations with Luce is just so humiliating, to a point I need to facepalm.As to the ending. Oh goodness I hardly even want to mention it. The supposed plot twist in the finale turns out to be such a massive   canon rape canon-destroying plot hole which I feel completely cheated, yes the ending is that ridiculous. The Final Words: If you aren't looking for some good laugh, stay away from this series.