I said I was going to finish this book, but I've already self-inflicted so much pain on myself for so long that is enough. Like I said: this is the last book in this series that I will read. Nothing can convince me anymore that this will get better or that there will be good plot twists; I can even guess what will happen in some chapters.In this book, Mary Sue (Luce) travels back in time through the Annunciators, to learn more about her ✨incredible love story with the oh-so-irresistible-and-gorgeous-Daniel,✨ who is ✨the love of her life.✨ And Daniel follows her, though she doesn't know it.The very idea of time travel is great... Sadly, Lauren Kate developed it lousy, and confusingly too. This is more like a cat and mouse game, but it's two idiots playing it. Daniel arrives just as Luce is gone and has screwed up the timeline and her past self.This time, we have two points of view: Luce's and Daniel's, which is quite ridiculous and Daniel having a point of view adds nothing to the plot. You might as well remove his parts and it wouldn't affect the book. Why? Because Daniel is supposed to be reliving his memories (not past lives because let's remember he's an old immortal of over two thousand years of miserable living) and wants to find Luce. For the first time in centuries, there is a hope of breaking the curse that prevents Luce and Daniel from having a lasting love. The most ridiculous thing about all this is that Daniel raises certain doubts in the reader, but does not resolve them, but attributes them to fate, and that's as far as it goes. He does not go deeper into the subject and leaves the reader with more doubts than at the beginning.Luce's past selves are just as imbecilic as the Luce of the present. The one from the Victorian era is the one that stands out for being a bitch. But nonetheless, they all fall in love with Daniel and my question is, how, does Daniel seek her out in every life? And if so, how does he know where she'll be now? Does this mean he's a stalker like Edward Cullen? I wouldn't be surprised if it does. This series already proved to be a Twilight 2.0.I find it morbid to think that Daniel has met Luce when she was little and they've even interacted (in the Russian version of Luce's past life, the first one she meets), and he immediately knows who she is and that she's going to fall in love with him. It's disappointing that they know they are ✨destined✨to✨be✨together✨, because I was expecting more development on the part of their "relationship" or "love", but no: since we already know they are destined, and that they are "soul mates", we just expect them to love each other and promise to be together once and for all.Luce brags about how her love is true, but we don't have the scenes where she meets Daniel once and already assumes that her love is true; and then, when she dies burned by that same love... Cookie, get yourself a love that doesn't make you explode like fireworks and isn't toxic. You will be doing us all, and yourself most of all, a huge favor if you leave Daniel Grigori and live a full and long life, not just 16/17 years. Re-evaluate your life and ask yourself if Daniel and his love are really worth burning you alive after a real kiss. I don't think so.I still don't understand what the exact point of this book is, there are too many questions that are raised, but not answered; and to some extent, that's annoying. Also, it's predictable who Bill might be and what his purpose is in the book. Definitely lame.So, this is a big nope from me. I'm truly disappointed.Edit: oH, WAIT A MINUTE. I FORGOT SOMETHING.There's a part where it says that Daniel (a +2000 y/o man, please, NEVER forget it) used to watch Luce sleep. Edward Cullen?? Anyone?? THIS IS CREEPY AS FUCK!