“I'll always choose you." Yes that was the word. "Every single lifetime, I'll choose you. Just as you have always chosen me. Forever.”I was hanging on with my mouth open for most the time I was reading that book because of the time-travelling experience which was breath-taking and just constantly kept me on the edge. It's just what I wanted. From the beginning of this series I've wanted to go back in time and experience every single life-time Daniel and Luce have been together and this book realized my dream and I couldn't have asked for something better as a sequel to the second book which kind of downed my opinion for this series.It also solidified the relationship between Daniel and Luce though they weren't almost at all together. But just seeing, just reading about what the Luce of Now thought about her past-selves, her past lives with Daniel, and now no one can deny, not even Luce, that she and Daniel are one true pairing.I liked Bill and the vibe he permeated to that book. Bill is a weird this, you'll find him weird too at first but as the time goes by he'll grown on to you and you'll find him amusing and nice-to-be-around-with, especially for Luce who's experiencing that kind of emotionals up-and-downs because she is looking into her past so thoroughly, reliving memories she didn't even know she had. Bill is a big twist, I will tell you that and I gotta admit that I didn't see it coming, you're a big mind Lauren Kate.I love Daniel so much because he is the embodiment of the love I adore the most. He would never let Luce go no matter what. He'd rather have her for just a short period of time than not at all.. Even if it wrecks him when she dies he wouldn't change a thing if it meant that he wouldn't be with her for even a fraction of time.I had my doubts about Luce but, okay, I think she really understood the love that she and Daniel share (and along with her we did too). When there is love, real love, there is no room for doubt so I'm glad that her horizons were cleared and she saw her love through brand-new eyes.“I’ll love you with all my heart, in every life, through every death. Iwill not be bound by anything but my love for you.”This book was an awesome surprise for my feelings.That time in Tibet where Daniel couldn't take the pain and he jumped of a cliff and stayed unconcsious for weeks.. I cried. Cried and Cried. For days. Ah.