Three books. Count them. Three. And yet in all those many many MANY pages, there is still no foundation for Daniel and Luce’s love. None. Not one. Oh, unless you consider his chiseled nose, his violet eyes, his firm chest, his rippling abs or his whatever to be a basis for it. This isn’t love. It’s lust. Lust, not pure, beautiful, eternal love that we’re supposed to believe in, but lust. One of the seven deadly, no wonder these two were cursed for it. We’ve traveled back to the first place when the curse was placed in the first place and I still don’t understand it. Luce was in heaven, but she wasn’t an angel or he was in love with her soul? What in tha name of heaven/hell/wherever is/was Luce? Come the heck on. Luce is truly too stupid to ever be a heroine. Really, listen to this. She leaps into these Announcers without actually knowing where she’ll end up, but it doesn't really matter because she doesn't stay in any of these long agos long enough for them to actually be interesting or engage you in the story. But she does lust after Daniel in every single one so that’s consistent I guess, other than that she’s jealous of herself when her other self gets up close and personal with Daniel. She is supposedly trying to find out what's between them and if it's real, but let me say it again, there never is anything to their relationship other than they love each other because they love each other because they love each other because they love each other. Okay, moving on. Then she comes across a gargoyle and he tells her what to do and so she does it because she is the most stupid 4.0 AP student ever. In her near past, in this lifetime, just a few weeks ago, she was betrayed by someone she trusted, actually several people she trusted, but has she learned anything from this? Oh, heck no. Why should she actually get any smarter? Or even stop and think. Just stop and think, once. I could actually give this book one whole star more if she had stopped to think even one time. But nope.She even gets a huge hint about this creature. Pg 348: “Is it Daniel?” she asked. “He'd be able to see you, wouldn’t he? And there’s some reason you don’t want him to know that you're helping me.” And he answers that his purposes are his own and not all about her. But does this make her (say it with me) stop and think? Why would she? She's only been told that her meager little self is somehow linked to the fate of the entire world, no, I’m wrong, it's heaven and earth and hell as well, I guess, but can she spare one single solitary minute to use her brain? Pg 385 he finally tells her who he is. She never figures it out.So, back to the sort of plot. Guess who the gargoyle is, you'll never guess, really it's such a huge shock. I was surprised, I was stunned, I was floored, I was flabbergasted! Yeah, um, I was clued in on page 82 when he first showed up and didn't doubt for one minute that I was wrong in my assumption. I wasn't.Let's think about this for just a second. Let's think about this for just one second longer than Luce thought about it. Angels. Fallen angels. He never shows up when any of the other angels are around. Still need a hint. The great deceiver. Yeah, he's in this book. Big whoop. So he tries to get her to give up her soul because oh, who knows? It would change something in some way that would make something different, I suppose. Anyway, what kind of total idiot would think parting from your soul, your immortal soul, could possibly make anything better? And this is on the word of this skeevy gargoyle (who is the devil), no back-up to this idea, nothing to support that this would help, but she just thinks she'll do it anyway because she loves Daniel so much. Blah-blah-blabbety-blah. So, Luce is told several times that she must not interfere in her past lives. Super big no-no. What do you think she does? Of course, she tries to intervene because she always does exactly the opposite of what she’s told by anyone who has a clue about anything. Even when she tells her past self not to do something, do you think she listens? Of course not, because she’s her self-centered self and she does the opposite. Knowing she won’t do what she should then her present self should have insisted her past self do the opposite of what she wanted her to do and her stubbornness would have fixed the problem. Does she have no self-awareness at all? Is she totally incapable of any kind of personal growth?Luce travels through her past lives and, of course, she isn't just some lowly peasant girl, living some mundane life. Nope, she was almost chosen to marry Louis XV, almost married a Shang dynasty king, knew Shakespeare, was in Tahiti at the time of the HMS Bounty, some rich spoiled Victorian girl. In fairness she is a slave in one and is almost a human sacrifice in another, but mostly she is someone super-duper-special. Pg 340 “Every life had taught her something so far. Surely this life must hold its own key. If only she knew what to search for.” I love this sentence because it’s just so silly. In every lifetime these two turn each other on. That’s it, there isn’t anything to learn because there isn’t anything to their love. It. Just. Is. *sigh* (and not in a good way)What I have waited three books to find out is why she bursts into flame and dies. And I’m still waiting. Why did the guy she was with that got her sent to Sword & Cross to begin with, why did he burst into flame? Does anyone care, other than me? Luce doesn’t seem to. It never even crosses her mind. Wow, how shallow.I didn’t much enjoy the first book of this series and the second was just as bad, but I wanted to give a fair try, wanted to see if the plot and characters and writing could improve, if there could even be a foundation for this love that is so timeless and beautiful and yeah, yeah, whatever. But after three books and 1336 pages I am done. The one and only good thing I can say about this one is that it’s twenty pages shorter than the last one. That’s it.Last but not least about this book, white peonies are mentioned several times so why the heck is the front cover showing a big old red rose? Makes no sense.However, I want to give a big shout out to all the authors of these truly painful series. I’m looking at you, Lauren Kate, Kami Garcia, Margaret Stohl and Becca Fitzpatrick (Lauren Oliver, I'm making a brief glance in your direction but I've still got hope for your series). You have cured me. You have saved me from uncountable hours spent reading drivel, reading books that aren't worth my time and, sad to say, aren't worth the dollars that I've spent on them. From here on out, I will never continue a series that I don't love or like well enough to give another chance as first impressions do seem to count. I've managed to stop myself reading a book I didn't like; I’ve done it twice now. So these series are finished for me whether they are actually complete or not. I no longer care about any of these characters or plots. If, in the future, one of you writes a single book, with a beginning, middle and reasonable, satisfying ending that doesn't just leave everything hanging until the next book comes out, I might and that's a very tiny might, but I might take a chance on it. This is the last time I will have Fallen for the Passion of your Beautiful Creatures and I must Hush. Hush the Crescendo of my Torment, leaving me alone and bereft in the Beautiful Darkness.