”The Maiden will bear a daughter, they will call her Immanuelle, and she will redeem the flock with wrath and plague.”4.5***** rounded up.This book was fucking amazing! This delivered witchy, twisty and dark themes that I absolutely thrive on. This tackled themes of family, belonging, oppression, misogyny and race as well. Previous reviews to this compared it to “The Handmaids Tale” and as much as I thought that book was great, it was a very uncomfortable read and I wasn’t so sure if I wanted to delve into that again. However, maybe as this book had fantasy elements I wasn’t as uncomfortable reading it. In this book, we follow Immanuelle who is from Bethel, a closed off community reminiscent of films of “The Village” whereby there is religious fanaticism. Here the religion (which is cult like) is very patriarchal and everyone is taught to fear the Darkwood (the woods bordering Bethel) and the witches that reside within. Anyone who goes into the woods either does not come back or goes so crazy that there is no helping them. Immanuelle tries to follow holy protocol and confess all her sins, however, she is lured into the forbidden Darkwood where she is gifted a diary from the woods inhabitants. This diary is written by her long deceased mother and immanuelle is fascinated but also frightful of the confessions of her mother and her consort with the witches. When bad things begin to descend on Bethel and it’s inhabitants, it is up to Immanuelle to try to put a stop to them with the use of the diary. Here she must face the truth of Bethel and it’s Church and Prophet, as well as the truth of her own history and roots. This book was uncomfortable in relation to its heavy patriarchal themes and religious fanaticism to justify the horrible treatment of women. There are elements of sexual assault,peadophilia and torture in this book.I absolutely adored the darkness of the witches and the forbidden Darkwood in this. This had witchcraft, sigils and just quite weird and dark encounters going on. This book read like a horror movie (but a good one) which had me thinking of “The Village” and “The Witch”. Immanuelle is a great character and toward the beginning she reminded me of Belle from Beauty and the Beast: she is an outcast, she goes to the market to sell her sheep only to get sidetracked with wanting to read the books which someone peddles into the market, reading (especially by a woman) is frowned upon, etc. the bookworm in her made me love her even more. We also get to see her character develop and when the whole world seems dead set against her, she just pushes back and tries to love and forgive them anyway. This book is not a fast paced book (hence the small deduction in rating). I also hoped that the ending would give me more “silent Hill” (the movie) than the ending that actually happened, but it was still good. This was slow-paced but alluring with its dark themes. Throughout this book I constantly had the song “Season of the Witch” replaying through my mind. ”Blood. Blight. Darkness. Slaughter.”