THE REVIEW IS POSTED2.7 STARS  I honestly don't know where to begin. This book disappointed me very much and it's not like I had high expectations before reading it, in fact my expectations before reading it were pretty low because I didn't know what to expect and I just wanted to read it. I thought that at least this would be a 3 star read for me but nope, that didn't happen or maybe this book just isn't a cup of my tea. To be honest, I rarely read books about sirens or pirates and I don't know why, those aren't really my favorites but if the stories were good or seemed good for me, then I would definitely read them and I read this book because they synopsis sounded good and I was intrigued to know more about the book and I wish I didn't read this book. I fucking wasted my time.There were some parts that I liked in this book though ( thankfully! ). ❤ I liked how brutal and scary it was. It was pretty scary and interesting to read and this book was good enough if I only thought about how scary and brutal it was. ❤ The secondary characters! omg I really liked Madrid and Kye. They were such good characters and They were A LOT more interesting than Lira or Elian. Madrid and Kye made me laugh or grinned several times and they were also cute and I liked them so much! What I did not like :☹ The pacing of the book was really slow. I love slow pacing books but THAT WAS TOO SLOW and I was bored. I kept reading it because I was still patient enough and I still wanted to know more about the book BUT OH MY GOD, THIS BOOK WAS SO SLOW and I did not have the patience anymore to read it so I skimmed reading it when I reached page 214. ☹ This book was fucking boring. I swear, I almost always fell asleep or felt sleepy when I read this book. ( except when Madrid or Kye made me laugh or when the book scared me ) There were actions scenes in this book but they just didn't hold my interest. The book was just boring and when I read this book time moved so slow and I just couldn't read fast enough and it frustrated me! because I just wanted to finish reading this book. That's all I wanted. ☹ I don't know what to say about Elian and Lira. They were not plain but they were not interesting either. The only characters that I cared were Madrid and Kye. I didn't care about Elian and Lira. ☹ I can't say much about the romance other than I didn't care about it and I also didn't feel anything toward the romance. Basically, I am just so disappointed right now and I wasted my time reading it. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Me : *holds the book and whispers to it* Me : Goodbye. I will never miss you. REVIEW TO COME SOON.  ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••After not reading a book for several days, I AM FINALLY READING A BOOK AGAIN! YAY! Have you guys read this book? And what do you think of it? (no spoiler please ) 😊