Maybe I am a mystery— a secret— that needs unraveling...Or maybe, you are just one of a million special snowflake heroines.I really, really wanted to like this one. The premise is absolutely amazing - just riddled with poor execution and even poorer logic. Jules Ember lives in Sempera - a country where time is literally money. Lifetime can be extracted from blood and then is condensed into "blood-irons". The time can be re-absorbed or transferred if the coins are consumed.Most of the rich eat the coins like candy so they remain young and beautiful forever while the poor slowly sell away their lives for a loaf of bread.Jules used to live on the Gerling Estate (the blood-iron rich aristocrats) but was forced to flee with her father ten years ago.She and her father have struggled to survive for years and recently, much to her horror, Jules realizes that her father has secretly sold his time to pay for their meager lives.Despite his warnings, Jules decides to go to the Gerling Estate to earn enough blood-irons to keep her father alive and to find out what really happened ten years ago.And yet, as she finds herself in a world of ever-increasing secrets, she begins to wonder if some mysteries are better left unsolved. Overall, I wasn't too impressed.Essentially, the book's entire plot consisted of pointless secrets, terrible character decisions and an annoyingly annoying true love.Pointless SecretsThis book was chock-full of the kind of secrets that if the characters spent ~5 minutes and talked like normal human beings, the entire novel would've been around 40 pages (maybe 50).And yet, the author managed to write an entire book on it. Just shoot me now.Terrible Character DecisionsJules constantly rushes headlong into danger - heedless of her father's warnings, society's warnings and any and all forms of common sense. It was maddening.For example, she decides to go to the Gerling Estate despite many (many) (MANY - LIKE YOU HAVE NO IDEA HOW MANY WARNINGS) by her dying father. Allow me to repeat this - her father's literal dying wish was for her not to go and she decides to go anyway because:The idea takes hold of me, somewhere deep down, and I know that as soon as I can, I will have to find my own way to the town out of time. And yet, she is surprised and betrayed when things go south. An Annoyingly Annoying True LoveSo, one of the main plot points was -  Will Jules decide between Generic Hot Guy #1 or Generic Hot Guy #2???But, even that didn't have much merit because Jules has had a crush on Generic Hot Guy #1 since she was seven. Seven. And to that I say, really? REALLY? This was over ten years ago, and she's still wholly and completely "in love" with this guy. I could maybe (MAYBE) see this if the guy was something extraordinary or saved her from a fire but honestly, he just seemed like a benign, normal playmate.I really think this was to the detriment of the book. Because Jules was already "in love" (yes, I WILL keep using quotes with that phrase), we never got to see her falling in love.Instead we got her talking about being "in love" (constantly) made the experience feel false and prevented me from becoming emotionally invested in the plot. That being said...I do have to admit, the ending did surprise me and it was enough of a shocker that I am now tempted to read the second.Audiobook CommentsRead by Eileen Stevens and it was a pretty good audio. YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads