Imagine a world where time is used as currency, extracted from the blood in your very veins (turned into blood-iron coins). A plethora of ideas may pop into your head including the possibility of robbers in the form of bleeders to steal time from you. The world building here is fantastic as  Sara Holland creates a world where the rich tax the poor, ultimately having centuries to live while the poor are continually struggling to get food on their table and pay their taxes or rent. The issue is..if you can't afford to pay, you must turn your blood into currency and lose time off your life. There's a certain point you can't go back from because once your time is out..you will die, but not before losing your mind.Jules and her father are very poor. She knows her Papa has been bleeding himself to pay rent and can't bare to watch him die when she knows there is another way to get the time even if he won't let her bleed for it. Everless is an estate where the Gerlings reside, the very ones who their rent goes to. They pay their servants a great deal more than anywhere else - a year on the month. The catch is: it's not safe. Beside the rumors of harassment, mistreatment and harsh & cruel punishments among other things, Jules has a past at Everless. Ten years ago, she and her Papa lived there as servants until an accident occurred leaving Jules and her Papa fleeing for their lives.AH. The plot just gets even better from there. It's a story that keeps giving. The premise has so many things that can be explored. Luckily for us, Holland tries to do just that. I can imagine the next book going even further. I loved the multi-layered characters and how realistic they actually felt. I could've used more of some of the secondary characters. That shows how much I enjoyed them. OH and the twists! They're glorious.My one issue would lie solely in the fact that the mythology was a bit on the confusing side. I had to go back and re-read it to make more sense of everything at a certain point. If that had been re-worked, we'd be peachy. Because I'm still slightly confused but I also cannot freaking wait for the sequel. So there's that.