**3.5-stars**In a world where the old adage, time is money, is literal, Jules Ember is watching her dear Dad slowly waste away. His remaining time is quickly being drained to pay for things as simple as rent and sustenance. In this world, time is currency. He won't allow Jules to help him, but she refuses to stand idly by while his time slips through their fingers.When an opportunity presents itself for Jules to make a lot of time relatively quickly, she jumps on it, even though it means returning to the kingdom they were forced to flee 10-years earlier.The Gerling boy, Roan, is due to marry the Queen's adopted daughter, so obviously they will need all hands on deck for a royal wedding.Jules gets selected to be a part of the preparation crew and once inside the kingdom all sorts of memories flood back to her. Jules once played with Roan in these very halls and upon seeing him again, a spark rekindles.The past becomes clear as more and more pieces are revealed and Jules discovers her life is not at all what she thought. Buried secrets come to light that shake her to her core. Soon, Jules finds herself in a fight for her life, and that of the kingdom, gaining unexpected allies along the way.I really liked this book. It was a pleasant surprise, as I had heard some not great reviews.Yes, I have watched the movie In Time with Justin Timberlake. No, it did not affect my enjoyment of this book in anyway whatsoever. I feel like the concept of time as currency is not something that was first dreamed up with that movie. I feel like that concept, with the wealthy being at a startling advantage over the poor, is something that has been explored in various forms in the science-fiction genre for a while. I could be wrong though.In all seriousness, I did enjoy this. I thought it was fun to read and the writing kept me engaged. I very much enjoyed the legends of the Alchemist and Sorceress at the heart of the story. Who else would love a prequel based on those legends?I do have the second book, Evermore, gracing my bookshelves and plan to pick it up soon. I am interested to see where this story goes from here!