This is the book you sit in the cold bath water because you would rather be cold and wet than not know how it ended. This is the book you stay up reading be because you would rather read it than sleep. This is the book that would sacrifice a limb for.For me a big issue with books is they wait to start. They either give you a scene from the middle of the book, giving you false hope that things will be exciting or they open with a bunch of random philosophical sentences and analogies, which is fine when used in balance but a book should always have an exciting sharing opening. It's the deal maker or breaker for a reader. Unfortunately, even some of the best books have boring openings. This book did not. I was ensnared from the beginning. I really loved the world idea and how it was carried out. I am a big fan of fantasy, especially worlds with magic. The idea of beauty being something that is given and taken was really unique and creative and intrigued me through the entire book. One of my favorite parts of the book, were all the part where I learned more about the Belles powers. I also really loved the almost mythology and lore of the Belles. I really wished that the background and backstory of the Belles in general had been delved into more. Maybe it will in book two. I really loved the vast array of characters in this book. There were characters to hate and characters to love. I especially hated Sophia, the obvious villian. I mean, I have literally never hated a character more since Queen Levana from the Lunar Chronicles. Sophia is evil and to be honest, I hope she ends up dying 😂😯 I was honestly kind of frustrated that no one tried to stop her or even stand up to her at all. I was expecting this book to have romance. I mean it's a YA book. Romance is a given. Right? Wrong. Well sort of. While there was a teeny weeny bit of romance, I was pleasantly surprised by the lack of smut. Though a part of me did miss it a bit.I don't want to dive into the plot twists because I don't want to spoil any of them but towards the end they came flying out of nowhere. I never saw any of them coming. I'm still mind blown.Thank you so much to Disney Hyperion for sending me a copy of this in exchange for an honest reviewBottom Line:5/5 StarsAge Recommendation: 13+ (Violence, Slight Language, Scary Themes, Rape Attempt)For Fans Of: Caraval,The Giver and The Cruel Prince| Goodreads | Blog | Pinterest | LinkedIn | YouTube | Instagram