Northern Lights 5☆The Subtle Knife 5☆The Amber Spyglass 3☆Some spoilery musings:- Lord Asriel is just as scary and cool adventurer uncle as I remember him, and up to now he's only been described as "a tall man with powerful shoulders, a fierce dark face, and eyes that seemed to flash and glitter with savage laughter" which leaves open the question of where Lyra got her hair color from.- Ah yes, this is what they got so very wrong in the HBO series; Coulter isn't so obviously fake-nice. She actually seems kind and angelic to the children. As much as I dislike the movie adaptation, it did have better casting for her.- Gotta love Lyra. She's proud and stubborn, a liar and storyteller all in one. She's steet-smart but also clever, and she genuinely cares for others. And she runs away on the stairs, unlike the weird elevator they put in the series.- "Ma Costa was a powerful woman with gray hair and hands like bludgeons" and terribly, terribly miscast in the series.- All this planning and preparation with the gypsies, plus the hall they convene in, is so much grander than what they did in the series (leave it to HBO to downgrade great source material).- “If you want my service, the price is this: get me back my armor. Do that, and I shall serve you in your campaign, either until I am dead or until you have a victory.”I thought so. The scene where they meet Iorek is so much better here.- Lyra is so clever; she slips the fake alethiometer tin into her boot while tied up and scared, convincingly gives a false name to her captors, acts dim-witted because she judges that will benefit her, and spins this whole tale about her parents being traders with some truths slipped in (like that she's from London) to make it more convincing.- Good thing the goose (who they changed into a falcon in the TV series - a goose just isn't cool enough, huh?) followed them.- “Human beings can't see anything without wanting to destroy it, Lyra. That's original sin. And I'm going to destroy it. Death is going to die.”Do you not hear the irony in your own words, Asriel.- Curious that some witches are helping the church.- So the spectres come and go and the residents of Citagazze also come and go; and the kids say they sort of like it when the specters come so they can do what they want without the grownups. They obvs got used to the spectres being part of their world to some extent. - Will and Lyra also spend more time there and even play with some of the kids, unlike the painfully awkward meeting in the series.