Day late and a dollar short with this one.My hope was to have read and reviewed His Dark Materials trilogy before the film adaptation of the first third, The Golden Compass, came out last Friday. And I would have too - if it weren't for that sheer enormity of suckiness that was the third book in the series (The Amber Spyglass). *sigh* But then, life doesn't actually work out perfectly for us as often as we'd like. Sometimes there are earthquakes that level cities in Turkey. Sometimes Spinach is found to test positive for Salmonella. Sometimes a country introduces democracy to another. And sometimes, just sometimes, Philip Pullman writes a book.Now I don't want it to sound like the series is the worst ever written. It's not. It's not even the worst I've ever read. Not entirely anyway. The fact is there are three books and they should be treated separately before we get to the series as a whole. So then, to the review! (times three.)Oh yeah. And there'll be some spoilers in there. Not that it matters. Seriously.________________The Golden CompassA third of the way into Pullman's first installment of His Dark Materials, I was excited. While Pullman wasn't the most eloquent of writers and his characters had yet to really develop at all, it was clear he had an exciting imagination and was as good at world-building as nearly any fantasy author. He had developed an alternate history for our world that while completely foreign was largely analogous to our own that it didn't seem like a different world entirely. They have science and electricity and particle physics and everything - they just call it by a different name.The real joy and conceit of the series though is Pullman's use of daemons, animal expressions of every character's soul. These familiars are constant companions of every human, expressing through their animal nature the nature and quality of their human companion. And the daemons of children have yet to find a stabilized form and so flit forth and back and over and again through a host of forms - from owl to ermine to tabby to dolphin to moth to monkey. Et cetera.Throughout the first book's clumsy storytelling, there is still something that approaches near to wonder. Enough to satisfy some readers. The first four-fifths of the narrative are brisk and enjoyable, and the book only begins to falter when Lyra (the heroine) leaves the bear kingdom to meet her first-act climax. Pullman stumbles through an expository patch here and a finale that comes off as slightly less than readable. The book, much like The Fellowship of the Ring ends without an ending, leaving the conclusion for future installments.________________The Subtle KnifeTypically, the middle chapter in a trilogy is its weak point, so the greater turn toward mediocrity wasn't so worrisome and I didn't quite see in it the grave portent that I ought to have (hindsight, eh?). The second installment introduces a hero into the mix. Will, who is on the cusp of his teen years just like Lyra, actually hails from our world. And through happy accident or fate or dull contrivance both finds himself in league with Lyra and the chosen wielder of a knife that can cut through the fabric between worlds. The two team up and have a number of relatively dull adventures as we learn more about the great war brewing between heaven and earth and about the prophecy that Lyra is to be the new Eve and that she is to perpetrate a great betrayal and the freedom of all the worlds is at stake. Also introduced is an ex-nun-now-particle-physicist named Mary Malone who is prophesied to be the serpent/tempter to Lyra's Eve.An interesting set-up for the final book despite being introduced by three-hundred pages of boredom punctuated by moments of ingenuity and interest.________________The Amber SpyglassBook three was just a mess. It's almost nonsensical as it strives against reason and its own narrative to bring the story to some kind of resolution. The great betrayal prophesied? Not really a betrayal at all. Lyra being tempted? Never happens. Mary playing the role of the serpent? Nope. She just kind of stands around. Oh, and the big plan to take war to heaven and kill God? Has nothing to do with anything in the story really. Though they do end up killing the Enoch from some world. The last 250 pages are baffling. There is no climax. The plot contrivances are painful. I'm not even sure what the point of the story was. Things happen because in Pullman's mind they need to, not because it would make any sense for something to happen a certain way.It's hard to believe it but this book was worse actually than The Da Vinci Code. At least that was merely stupid. This was stupid, senseless, and (perhaps worst of all) boring. It's what I imagine Eragon would have been if I would have made it past page one hundred.________________So then, as a whole? His Dark Materials is bad news for readers. From a moderately strong start it quickly turns into a preachy, meandering production of less than an infinite number of monkeys typing for slightly less than eternity. This is probably what half those monkeys would hit upon after about a year and a half. Pullman sets in motion things in volume one that never bear fruit. He never satisfactorily explains the things that one would expect that he should have explained. He provides no climax. His narrative is a shambles. He creates a character (Father Gomez), sends him on a mission to kill Lyra, follows him around for an inordinate amount of time, and then kills him without there ever being a confrontation between himself and his prospective victim. And then there are the mulefa. Don't get me started.Additionally, his characters are cardboard cutouts who express whichever motive Pullman decides is necessary - no matter the fact that there is no reasonable expectation that these characters should behave so. The aeronaut decides really out of the blue that he loves Lyra (a girl he doesn't even really know) like a daughter and will do anything to protect her. The principle witch meets Mary Malone, talks with her for a few minutes, and then declares them sisters for life. It's all just baffling. Recently, having criticized those who expressed how well-written the series is, I was put to notice that His Dark Materials has won a number of awards. I find this a chilling revelation and it wasn't 'til I recalled that Left Behind was a phenomenal bestseller that I was comforted that this was just business as usual for a civilization that is so steeped in mediocrity that it awards the title of Greatness to that which dare not even approach the servant quarters of Greatness for fear of overstepping its bounds. I think people want so badly to think highly of something, to think it the next whatever-recently-great-thing-comes-to-mind, that they abandon all sense of what is in order to do so.Shame on Philip Pullman and shame on our society for encouraging such dreck. Remember, if you praise it, it will be emulated.