One of the many things I enjoyed about Susanna Clarke’s debut novel, “Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell” was the footnotes that would go on at length telling some strange tale about fairies or magic. They were short stories set apart from the main story, but important to the world of the novel nonetheless. “The Ladies of Grace Adieu” is a collection of short stories similar in spirit to the footnotes in “Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell”. Susanna Clarke’s ability to write in period style is quite impressive. One would almost think that she had traveled forward in time from the Victorian Age just to regale us with her fairy tales. She can even write in the style of the 17th century without missing a beat. Despite Clarke’s period writing style, her work is quite readable and seems as fresh as it is.The title story, “The Ladies of Grace Adieu”, is a mysterious story about 3 young ladies in the town of Grace Adieu. They appear to be perfectly normal young women. One is married to a much older gentleman. One is the gentleman’s ward. The third is governess to two young orphan heiresses. Jonathan Strange and his wife and her brother make a cameo appearance in this story. The Stranges are visiting Mrs. Strange’s brother who is vicar at the local church. He is enamored by Cassandra, the gentleman’s ward. The story takes some odd twists and turns that I didn’t quite follow but found quite haunting.“On Lickerish Hill” is a straight forward re-telling of the Rumplestiltskin story. It takes place in the 17th century and is told in the English of that time when spelling wasn’t standardized. The words all look odd; it’s like reading early Colonial American works. But, it is easier to read than it seems. The language is what makes this story engaging.“Mrs. Mabb” is an odd fairy tale about a young woman who refuses to believe that her beloved has left her for a mystery woman. Even though she appears to have gone insane, she never gives up trying to find the elusive home of her rival, Mrs. Mabb.“The Duke of Wellington Misplaces His Horse” takes place in the town of Wall—the setting of “Stardust” by Neil Gaiman and Charles Vess. It’s a very short, amusing piece about celebrity and embroidery.“Mr Simonelli or the Fairy Widower” is an intriguing story. If Edgar Allen Poe wrote fairy tales, this would be the result.“Tom Brightwind or How the Fairy Bridge Was Built at Thoresby” didn’t work quite as well as the other stories in this collection. I could see no reason why Tom and David were friends. The ending held no surprises and the magic seemed less than magical.“Antickes and Frets” is yet another tale of embroidery and celebrity.“John Uskglass and the Cumbrian Charcoal Burner” is part fairy tale, part fable. The Cumbrian charcoal burner is probably the best character in this collection.