I read Susanna Clarke's novel Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell back in 2005. It is long. I had the audio version from the library; I used to listen an hour or more a day during a long commute, yet I had exhausted all allowed renewals and still wasn't done. So I became a scofflaw, until they were about to send out the cavalry to get their book back. She is a magical writer. She is embedded in some other reality in her writing, the reality of some earlier mindset that we still recognize when she embroiders it for us. And in two stories she indeed has her characters embroider, stitching the future into reality or ripping it out as the case may be. In "The Duke of Wellington Misplaces His Horse," the said gentleman's clumsy attempts, required by necessity, provide an apt metaphor for politicians then and now--well, at least, now. Her fairies are not Disney fairies; far from it. Nor are they Tinkerbell, my go-to fairy reference point. Fairies are big, powerful creatures. They are men. Not that there aren't women fairies, but they are under paternalistic rule. Power dominates.Fairies are amoral. They attract women and have their way with them. They have little attachment to the offspring they scatter about--although they may need human women to breed them and sometimes as wet nurses. Human women have the same power differentials, so some illicit magic can come in handy to level the playing field. In the first story--the title story--Jonathan Strange puts in an appearance. He exhibits consternation at the antics of the titular ladies, but, under the circumstances, what choice did they have? It seems they protected the defenseless.We were listening on a car trip. On one story I fell asleep twice at the same point and never could discover the cause of the narrator's demise! But I learned fairies can make you think you are surrounded by beauty and freedom when filth and imprisonment are the reality. And they are hard to kill; not immortal but death-resistant. They want to get their way and stop at nothing.But they don't always get it. In a Rumpelstiltskin-like story the bride does find out the Pharisee's name. Make that the fairy, the one who lives on Lickerish Hill. (Watch out for conflating your "other" and your folklore.)In a later story, Jewish physician David ben Israel uses his knack for argumentation to try and make the pesky fairy Tom Brightwind mend his ways and use his powers for good. In what may be the earliest retrojection of "Judeo-Christian" values, this story compares and contrasts the moral values of Christians and Jews with those of fairies. A version of using the enemy from outer space to bring about peace on earth? (A small but noteworthy aspect of this long story.)Ladies, if a lady fairy steals your intended, be prepared to get stronger and fight back!I especially loved the last story. A lowly peasant type done wrong by the king of Fairy is vindicated with the help of heavenly saints yet prohibited from exacting the harsh revenge he desires. He is so easily made happy and content.Susanna Clarke does inhabit an alternative reality, one to which she can grant us entry, but she wasn't always a writer. She did work in publishing, and she taught English as a second language in Turin, Italy and Bilbao, Spain, and in 1993, when she was about 34, she took a five-day creative writing course in fantasy and science fiction. She had been rereading Lord of the Rings. Also, while she was in Spain, she began having a "waking dream" of a man in 18th century clothes talking to English tourists in Venice. It was then she began to try and write her novel. Around the same time she took a job editing cookbooks that she kept ten years--which is how long she took to write her novel. So, writing it was even more interminable than reading it! She says she would never have begun if she had known how long it would take her. So let her be an inspiration, you aspiring novelists!