4.5/5I'm not nearly as put off by short stories as I used to be, but when the author in question has only been experienced via massive tome of snail-slow story building and the most mincing of emotional turnabouts (thank you, England), my hopes were not high. Lucky for me, Clarke can not only deliver her wit and world immersion in more minute packaging, but knows how to successfully explore her strengths. Of course, it's all very polite and English and even Ye Olde in parts, but that particular Clarkean mix of subtle menace and dry humor that I loved so much in Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell is here in force.There are eight stories if one does not count the magically inclined academic introduction, four of them tickling my fancy and all of them worth reading. JS&MN is a wonderful book, but like many wonderful books it suffers from a lack of women Doing Things, and it was someone mentioning Clarke improving on that in this set of stories that first sparked my interest. "The Ladies of Grace Adieu" was both the titular and the first of the stories, and was so well done in terms of building off the older and weightier tome with a fresh female perspective that I do hope Clarke continues it in JS&MN's sequel. The Ladies of Grace Adieu and their mastery of the more morbidly efficient aspects of magic demand it.The other stories I enjoyed were "Mr Simonelli or The Fairy Widower", "Tom Brightwind or How the Fairy Bridge Was Built at Thoresby", and "John Uskglass and the Cumbrian Charcoal Burner". Mr. Simonelli is one of the rare epistolary narrators whose all too reliable narration proves more disturbing than any obfuscation; combined with small town maneuverings of money and Fairy Intrigue, it was a story I was sad to see end. Tom Brightwind was so full of hints at social concerns that it almost broke through the English mold of Not Talking About Such Things, leaving me with a great deal of food for thought as all good short stories should. Both it and John Uskglass had great moments of humor, the latter proving the the perfect combination of Powerfully Awesome Person Gets Theirs By The Most Absurd Happenings Imaginable that I disturbed people sitting near to me with my cackling. Unfortunately for them, I was reading a treebook, so there was no possibility of silent disapproval of the Those Dem Technological Millenials sort.At that moment John Uskglass and his court where preparing to go hunting. A cow wandered into the stable-yard. It ambled up to where John Uskglass stood by his horse and began to preach him a sermon in Latin on the wickedness of stealing.See? I'm still giggling. Whoever's in charge of bringing JS&MN to the screen needs to hurry up already so I have an excuse for rereading it. Or Clarke could let us know how far along we should expect JS&MN's sequel to be published. Either one works.