This book is about evil fairies and subverting genre expectations. SUBVERTING TROPES AND BLENDING BINARIESIt took me a long time to figure out why, exactly, this book captivated me so much. Yes, it's definitely a solid read, but what made this a five-star-favorite-book-ever read? I think in the long run what stood out to me was how Holly Black sees the tropes of this story and avoids them. Ben and Hazel are essentially a role-reversal of typical fantasy heroes. The boy is the one in love with a fair prince in the woods, the girl is the lionheart fighting for their lives. I also liked that The Darkest Part of the Forest is so... not heteronormative. I don't know how to describe it any better than that - Holly Black has this casual approach towards writing lgbtq characters that works perfectly. The entire world blends gender and sexuality binaries into this map that rings so true. All that being said, you need to have proper expectations for her writing. Black writes characters and relationships that are fucked up and doesn't always care to tell the audience “hey, this isn't okay.” There's this vibe of evil, of hate, that she's not trying to get rid of. CHARACTERS YOU HATE AND LOVEHolly Black is very good at writing unlikeable protagonists, characters you somewhat despise and somewhat love. She risks making you hate her protagonists so that you'll love her protagonists and I love it. The Darkest Part of the Forest has four main protagonists, two point of view characters and two somewhat-love-interests. I love all of them, of course. Black is very good at making you empathize with characters you feel as if you should dislike. Severin, for example, reads like he should be a villain. But the audience gets to decide whether he truly is. Hazel, though, is especially my favorite. She does not fit into any boxes; she is both the warrior archetype and a complex subversion of the warrior archetype. I felt as if I had a feel for her twenty pages in, and I never did give up that love for her. I also somewhat adore the way Holly Black writes relationships. She is this odd mix between a cynic and a hopeless romantic and her romance writing comes off exactly that way. Both romance plots here (I won't spoil with who!!) are understated but well-built all the same. And of course, there's the emphasis on sibling bonds. Ben and Hazel's sibling relationship is intricate and interesting. TENSION, FEAR, AND CLAUSTROPHOBIAHolly Black's writing is incredibly tense. You constantly feel as if you have to figure out what happens next. The environment is maybe one of my other favorite things about this book. Ben and Hazel's small town feels like another world, a claustrophobic hideaway cut off from all being. It makes a perfect setting, just eerie enough to make you feel on edge. She managed to make me feel small in comparison to this world, to this town, in a very visceral way. It's so engaging. VERDICT: This is one of my favorites and I REALLY recommend it to everyone. If morally ambiguous fairies in an eerie setting subverting genre expectations sounds like your shit, you need to pick this up.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube