I'm not going to say too much about this final instalment of the Malazan Book of the Fallen series. Mostly because I've prattled on long enough in my previous 9 reviews about all the reasons why this is such a great series. If you have made it to this 10th book chances are you already know about them as well! I do think The Crippled God was a satisfying conclusion to the series and that on the whole Malazan is one of the two true epics the fantasy genre has to offer. The other series being WoT and Malazan probably tops that in terms of scope and epic feel!In terms of storyline this was a direct continuation from the 9th book with the Malazan's and their various allies heading to Kolanse for an epic battle. As far as the Gods and Ascendants were concerned they were all heading to Kolanse as well for and epic Convergence! It all made for compelling reading. The Bonehunters featured heavily, as one might expect, but I was happy to see the return of a lot of our favourites from the earlier books even if the likes of K'rul and Kruppe did just pop up in cameos. As always Erikson did a good job of balancing the social commentary and story. I feel like his musings were a little grim and he botched the delivery of a few relevant points he was trying to make a couple of times but that on the whole I felt like his observations were fun and enhanced my enjoyment of the story. Most of the reason why this final instalment of the Malazan Book of the Fallen series was so satisfying was because Erikson got the balance spot on. This was a dark book with tons or war and violence but I feel like Erikson still managed to offer a satisfying balance between the tragedy and triumph and the hope and despair within the story. The ending was also very good! Both the final mega convergence and the wrap up were fun. The absolute toughest thing to get right is the ending of a long running series so credit to Erikson for delivering a truly satisfying and fitting ending to this series! I think that is all I have to say. This was a great ending to a great series and thankfully I'm not done with it yet as I still have a bunch of Esslemont's companion Malazan books to go. Rating: 5 stars. Not my favourite book in the Malazan series but it was still very good and well worth 5 stars. It was a continuation of the 9th book in many ways but it also eliminated a lot of that instalments main flaws. Audio Note: Michael Page did a great job as always. Between Lister, Page, and Banks I've listened to a few different authors take on Malazan and am happy to say all three narrators do an excellent job and jumping between them was surprisingly smooth and not at all jarring!