”Sorry to break your fairytale, Little Fox, but ballads don’t end happily.”

 not the book telling me this doesn’t end well like 20 times and everybody who’s read it telling me it doesn’t end well and me ! still ! hoping ! for ! a ! decent ? end ! WHY DO I DO THIS TO MYSELF 
“I wish our story could have had another ending.”
no bc what the fuck was that ending? it feels like someone is squeezing my heart AND NOT.LETTING.GO. i feel like i’m at a standstill. i have not cried but i wish i could bawl my eyes out to release the feeling but nope. this empty, unsettled feeling is staying with me til october it seems. love that for me! <3 this book. this book was love at first word for me. the way i ate it up. i ate good. this world is just so mesmerizing. i fell more and more in love with it with every page. its so beautiful and magical. but the book did have a very somber feel to it the whole way through. i felt a range of emotions while reading this. i was giggling, screaming, shaking, gasping, choking up, cursing, jumping, squealing, thrashing. ALL AT ONCE. 
”She wanted butterflies and kisses. She wanted it so much that sometimes she thought her heart would burst from it.”
eva our innocent naive little fox. she’s such an unreliable narrator. but i also loved seeing her thought process sometimes. she makes dumb decisions but i also understand them for the most part. 
“Life is not a kind storyteller. And I’m not meant to be a savior.”
JACKS MY FAV GOLDEN HAIRED BLUE EYED BOY. he is OF COURSE the highlight of this book. nobody does it like him."I'm not going to kill anyone. And neither are you.""Then why are we even here?"can we 
please
 get a jacks pov, im begging. i need to be in his head. i need it so bad. he’s so perfect to me he can do no wrong. 
“I do not want you dead, and I’ll kill anyone who tries.”
EVAJACKS MY PRECIOUS SOULS. i was living for every single second of them. them tending to each others wounds healed something in me. and when jacks called her “love” i simply passed out. 
“In the morning, you can forget it. You can go back to pretending you don’t like me, and I can pretend that I don’t care. But for tonight, let me pretend you’re mine.”
i am not okay. i am so so not okay. they have breathed life into me and then sucked it out.
“There is nothing of equal value to me.”
beautiful quotes: “People called it heartbreak, but Evangeline thought that losing someone you loved broke more than just a heart. When she had lost her first love, it had shattered her entire world.”“Evangeline didn’t want love that made sense, she wanted love that made her feel, love that made her want to fight and hope for the impossible.”“Happy endings can be caught, but they are difficult to hold on to. They are dreams that want to escape the night. They are treasure with wings. They are wild, feral, reckless things that need to be constantly chased, or they will certainly run away.”“Like all admirers of fairytales, she’d always loved the scent of books. She loved the paper dust in the air, the way it swirled in the light like little sprinkles of magic.”“Winning at love was less about succeeding in a battle and more about continuing to fight, to choose the person you loved as the one you were willing to die for, over and over.”“It struck her how intimate words could be, how they could be spoken only once, for only one person, and they would never be heard again, they would disappear like a moment, gone almost as soon as you realized they were there.”“He held her so tightly it hurt, but this pain she didn’t mind. She’d let him crush her, let him break her, just as long as he never let her go.”**p.s. i love when miss stephanie garber leaves things open to interpretation specifically with her use of the word “golden” in regard to jacks' hair colour. petition for her to never specify whether its golden brown or golden blond. tbh she can tell me it was blond right to my face and i would hear “brown” because delusion is not a temporary state of mind, it is the way of life.───────────────────────────THAT ENDING WAS CRIMINAL HOW COULD SHE END IT LIKE THAT I NEED MORE RIGHT NOW rtc when i can form coherent thoughts. my head is so empty rn. lemme go continue staring at my ceiling. i feel so empty.───────────────────────────i don’t think i’ll ever be ready for this book but i’m just not gonna think about the heartbreak waiting for me and just jump in with both feet <3