“In the morning, you can forget it. You can go back to pretending you don't like me, and I can pretend that I don't care. But for tonight, let me pretend you're mine.”
All I feel is pain.So yeah. I'm not okay right now. I knew the ending would kill me based off of reviews and people literally telling me that they cried and yes. I cried.But we'll have the ending's own section at the end, so let's first talk about...THE PLOTAlso, huge thank you to joy (elend's version) for giving me a summary on the first book! If you hadn't, I wouldn't have remembered anything!Oh. My God. So, if you all were seeing some of my status updates popping up (and there were a lot of them) then you know that I was freaking out literally all of the way through. Miss Garber was feeding us those plot twists. I was squealing, gasping, screaming, and giggling after almost each chapter because HOLY PLOT TWISTS. There was literally never a dull moment in this book, it was either really tense or funny, and I L O V E D it. I literally predicted none of the plot twists except maybe one: Jacks was the Archer. It seemed really obvious that Jacks was the Archer to me I love a good book that just keeps bringing in the plot twists. I was reading out in public and I literally had to resist gawking at the book and looking like an idiot because a twist was just revealed. Anyways, this plot was amazing, incredible, splendid, magical, and a bunch of other words alike to those.AND THEN WE HAVE...THE CHARACTERSI want to be like Evangeline Fox. I love her so much. So, in the beginning when I was getting used to the characters again, I didn't like her at first (probably because I wanted Jacks all to myself but we don't talk about my unhealthy attachment to fictional characters okay-) but she is an amazing protagonist. She actually makes semi-rational decisions, but she also was apparently really dumb according to my updates where I said she was dumb like twice. So yes, she did some stupid things in this book, but everyone does, so I can't fault her. But oh my gosh, this girl has been THROUGH IT. So much stuff happens to her in this book and I feel so bad!“I wish our story could have had another ending.”Stop. Anyways, onto Jacks. My one true love. I know, he's manipulative, cruel, only cares about himself, but do I care?No.Jacks could turn me into one of those vampires any day, I don't care. Sure, he makes ahem *questionable* choices throughout this book, but they were all because he cared about Evangeline. Maybe. At least I HOPE so. Jacks better not be pulling an "I didn't actually care for you" thing. I will die if he does. Here are some gems from the Prince of Hearts's mouth:“It's all right. I'd probably kill another man if I found him with you like this.”I'm not okay.“Where were you?” she asked.“I was killing innocent maidens and kicking puppies.”“Jacks, that’s not funny.”Comedic legend.“I do not want you dead, and I’ll kill anyone who tries.”We love an overprotective prince.So, if you can't tell already, I've got an unhealthy obsession. And to be quite honest?I like him more than Legend.YES, I SAID IT. 10/10“Dark was for stars and dreams and the magic that took place in between days.”All of these side characters were great too:-We learn so much about LaLa and that she's no ordinary Fate. I was actually shocked when her plot twists came in.-Chaos is a great villain. I was genuinely awed and horrified by his actions and all of these things he did to Evangeline were awful.-Apollo can fall off a cliff-Why does Luc just keep randomly appearing just to try to bite Evangeline?If there are any other side characters that I've forgotten, that must mean they aren't important. AND THAT FINALLY BRINGS US TO...EVAJACKS/THEIR IMPECCABLE TENSIONOh my gosh. Practically all of their scenes were FULL of tension and it was literally eating me from the inside out. Miss Garber definitely knows how to write tension. There were SO many different scenes where I thought they were going to kiss, and they made me absolutely insane. I was giggling an embarrassing amount IN PUBLIC. But yeah, Evangeline and Jacks turn me into an absolute monster and I'm okay with that. “It hurts, Jacks.”“I know, love. I’m going to take you somewhere safe.”Excuse me-AND THEY DON'T EVEN KISS IN THIS BOOK. WHY DID THE KISS SCENE HAVE TO BE BETWEEN APOLLO AND EVANGELINE, THAT KISS WAS HOT. JUST PUT JACKS IN THE PLACE OF APOLLO *sigh* and then there's... the ending.Why. Just why. WHAT DID I DO TO DESERVE THIS?? I HAVE DONE NOTHING WRONG AND THEN YOU GIVE ME THIS?? When I read the final few chapters, my jaw was open, my eyes were watering, and I kept whispering, "oh my god" and "no" over and over. And then when it was all over and I'd read the epilogue, I just stared at the wall, tears running down my face, and then silently marked this as read. THANK GOD THERE'S A THIRD BOOK COMING BECAUSE WTF. Literally so much was going on with this ending, and I will never forget it. To all the people who warned me that I would cry, you were correct. “She wanted the pain to end. She wanted to forget his dimpled smile, his brilliant blue eyes, the way he called her Little Fox.”So yeah, this was my review of The Ballad of Never After. I've not felt this strongly over a book in a while, so this was fun. So, um, excuse me while I just go and stare at the wall for another hour. Thank you.5 stars
“Nothing has been safe since the moment I laid eyes on you. And yet I don't want to look away.”
S T O P<><><><><><><><><>Don't talk to mertc