the only good thing this book did was remind me to dye my hair pink againi am still baffled this is classified as YA. i have read picture books more intense than this. the writing is just like "this forest is so magic and fairytale like - wow much magic, much fairytale". what's a man supposed to do with that. i'm not really one to vividly imagine book settings but at least give me SOMETHING.i'm also desperate to figure out what people see in jacks. he's... i don't even know what he is. he doesn't have any personality. zilch. zero. nada. all he does is eat apples. arguably the most boring fruit out there so it's fitting for him, i guess.don't even get me started about Evangeline. it's a wonder i remember her name. she also has no personality - unless being dumb and naive is a personality. i have met five year olds smarter than this. her brain is empty. this girl is shocked by every obvious thing that happens to her. a dude called Killer McKill could come up to Evangeline and be like "I will kill you" and ten pages later she will go "I can't believe Killer McKill tried to kill me, I'm so shocked, no-one saw it coming." - please. I'd ask other characters to donate braincells to her but the other lot isn't much smarter and they definitely don't have braincells to spare.all Evangeline cares about is having a love story. and she acts like she's having two while in reality she has none. Jacks shouldn't touch her because she's married to Apollo - a man she has interacted with for two seconds. But at the same time she thinks she can save Jacks by telling him she loves him. girlie, he won't care.not only do you have no chemistry with him, thinking "hihi if i just tell him i love him everything will be fine" is dripping with naivety. she truly doesn't understand any of the problems and motivations of the other characters. why is she the main one. the perspective of a random tree would have achieved the same thing.TL;DR: they should rebrand this book and target it to toddlers who don't have object permanence yet. i think that's about the same developmental level Evangeline is at. 1 star.