Sadly, I was unable to really get into Incarceron, let alone finish it. (Gave up on page 221) The main problem with the story was believability. Incarceron is a self-sustaining prison experiment that is in a secret location and sealed off from the rest of the world. Presumably the prison holds the normal thugs, rapists and thieves. But it also holds political dissenters and volunteers. Volunteers to…. Well this, like many other things, was never actually explained. The idea is interesting, but I have a hard time accepting the fact that any society would put so much effort into a prison if those sent to it are never meant to be released to normal society again. I mean, why not just kill them? Or ship them off to an island? What is the purpose of the experiment and why is it necessary for regular citizens to volunteer to enter Incarceron as well? Granted, the story is built on mystery but really crazy ideas have to have a grain of possibility to be enjoyable, and this one just never sold me on the idea. Regarding the mystery, neither the characters nor the reader fully knew what was going on. But at some point, something’s gotta give. Many reviews praise this novel for being so intense. Which, indeed it is. It is comprised of very short segments alternating between Finn’s gritty Incarceron existence and Claudia’s privileged life filled with spies, lies and fake pleasantries. Both Finn and Claudia happen to be experiencing an incredibly tumultuous time and that does make for powerful reading. Sort of like literary caffeine. However, behind all of the thrilling passages, there wasn’t much substance to support the story. Finally, I was not captivated by Claudia or Finn. Both of them are good people caught up in a bad circumstance. Both of them have the inner fortitude and strength to stand up for what is good and do the right thing… *yawn*. Aside from their intentions we never really learn who they are as people, and I had a hard time giving a crap about either one of them. So.... unbelievable plot + underdeveloped characters + mystery for the sake of mystery = a book I'm not gonna finish. Sorry.