1.) The Name of the Wind ★★★★★2.) The Wise Man's Fear ★★★★★2.4) The Lightning Tree ★★★★★2.5) The Slow Regard of Silent Things ★★★★★3.) Doors of Stone n/a[2022]a very happy reread + a very special feeling last book of 2022[2015]This review is going to contain mild spoilers and theory crafting, so I have to caution you while reading this if you are not familiar with this amazing world. “I do this so you cannot help but hear. A wise man views a moonless night with fear.”Obviously I'm being a little bit presumptuous, but I believe The Kingkiller Chronicles will be the best trilogy I've ever read. And I've read a lot of trilogies, and none of them can hold a candle to this masterpiece.  “No man is brave that has never walked a hundred miles. If you want to know the truth of who you are, walk until not a person knows your name. Travel is the great leveler, the great teacher, bitter as medicine, crueler than mirror-glass. A long stretch of road will teach you more about yourself than a hundred years of quiet.”Most the time I think the second installment of trilogies feel like complete filler books. Unnecessary information gets thrown at you left and right, while completely wasting your time and giving you a cliff hanger from hell. Everything in this book feels well thought-out and meaningful. I knew every piece of information was part of a larger puzzle, and I just tried to grasp every piece I could because I knew it was purposeful. The story telling in this book is seriously unmatchable.This book picks right back up where The Name of the Wind left off. It is day two for Kvothe, so he's in The Waystone Inn telling his story to the Chronicler while Bast listens along. This book's stories take him all over Tenerant on quite a few adventures that are all an absolute joy to read. This book definitely dabbles in a few darker situations that Kvothe ends up in, but he handles them all beautifully, even though he tricks you into thinking he isn't. We also meet lots of new and very interesting characters that help make the story even more perfect. I have to touch on how hard I'm fan-girling over Felurian. I don't care if she ends up good or bad, I completely loved her. She is literally a Fae siren, which if any of you know my in real life you'd know the stars aligned for me when this character was written. Kvothe traveling through the Eld Forest , and then entering into The Fae was my favorite moments of this whole series. I am dying to understand how The Cthaeh. works and what will come from the cryptic messages it told Kvothe. I don't know as much of The Cthaeh, Felurian, or The Faen realm as I'd like, but I just had to gush about how much I loved it all (especially Felurian though, I am seriously crushin'). It's also good to note that Felurian and Bast have similar titles; Felurian is the Lady of the Twilight and Bast is Prince of the Twilight and the Telwyth Mael.My friend brought it to my attention that they think Kvothe's mother and Lady Lackless are sisters, because of what Lady Lackless says to Kvothe when he is courting her for Maer Alveron. Then there is a song that Kvothe sings in the The Name of the Wind when he is still with his troupe, then his mother scolds him for singing it and it is about Lady Lackless. I love this theory and think it's pretty sound.Oh, and the final book's title name is Doors of Stone, and I can think of three doors; the one in the archives, the one in the Underthing where Auri lives, and a third that is mentioned in the song about Lady Lackless.*excitement intensifies*As soon as I finished this book I immediately had to look up other's fan theories on who Master Ash really is. I completely fell in love with the theory that he is Cinder. Like, how freakin' amazing would that be? I'm 100% going to obsess over this while waiting for Doors of Stone. I also listened to a podcast and at the end (about the 1:40:00 mark) one of the guys makes a beautiful revelation about how Cinder being Denna's patron could be because she has powers that will make people believe her, and with the song he's having her write, they could rewrite the history and make the world believe a completely different set of events. Ahhhh, it gives me goose bumps it's so perfect! Again, I fell in love with Pat by watching his stream of Fallout 4 for a charity he runs, Worldbuilders. I cannot stress enough how wonderful this cause is and how you should check it out. Mr. Rothfuss being a good human is just an added bonus to him writing the best fantasy books I've ever read.“It had flaws, but what does that matter when it comes to matters of the heart? We love what we love. Reason does not enter into it. In many ways, unwise love is the truest love. Anyone can love a thing because. That's as easy as putting a penny in your pocket. But to love something despite. To know the flaws and love them too. That is rare and pure and perfect.”Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Steam | Twitch