Initial thoughts: very absorbing as usual. Loving how Rothfuss handles the switch from Kote to Kvothe. I've just reached the part where  he takes his sea journey and drops the 'arrived broke and in rags' bomb without any details. Like the trial, apparently Kote is just going to skip over events he doesn't feel like telling. I understood his explanation for the trial, but I can't help thinking the sea voyage section is just Rothfuss screwing with his readers. . Especially where Kote states it isn't to the point of the story: it lead me to wonder what, exactly, is the point of the story? Not a good question to be coming up in an epic fantasy.Finished now. Could have lived without the teenage sex fantasy segment; I'm not sure what prompted Rothfuss to put it in, except part of building a legend? Very mixed feelings about it; it says something about either myself or Rothfuss when the most interesting part of a sex-fest in fae is a demonic tree. I also remain annoyed by Denna the Untouchable. Eh. Enough. Have at it.Update 7/15 from a discussion that contains spoilers:One, although I enjoyed the magical college, I did think it was largely a re-hash of the first book. But as I enjoy the premise, I didn't mind.Two, I was pretty ambivalent about the section where he skips over a shipwreck--I mean, it was kind of funny, but in retrospect, rather a mean authorial trick. After all, so far Kothe's life review has gone chronologically. So is Rothfuss going to go back to it? Three, I felt like the role women play continue to be very problematic. Basically, Kothe acts like an adolescent bursting with hormones. Which he is, but I could have lived without the extended sex fantasy in fairyland. It read like wish-fulfillment filler. I was also annoyed by Denna, who seems to be the bad girl who Kothe wants to redeem with his love, sort of, but mostly remains too unlikable for me to see the attraction.Four, I ended up being very uncomfortable with the Adem section. I wanted to like it, but I felt like there were native-other stereotypes in play that didn't override my wanting to like it. In retrospect, Rothfuss seems like he is re-writing the classic odyssey fantasy I grew up with (really, we're kind of doing the Belgariad here, or the Wheel of Time) and there's not enough uniqueness to it to really impress me anymore.