Patrick Rothfuss sang to me. Literally sang “You are my sunshine” to me last Sunday. More on that later.I didn’t want this book to end. When I was within sprinting distance of the end, I actually put the book down, bought groceries, and vacuumed the stairs. (My husband was pleasantly surprised.) I wanted so desperately to savor those last fifty pages that the parking lot at Target didn’t seem like an ideal location. Thus, I acted like a normal human for a couple hours until I could curl on my couch and dive back in with no distractions or guilt.In my opinion, it is better than the first book. Kvothe is growing older and we see more of his development into a traditional hero. He picks up some requisite skills as a lover and a fighter. He progresses in his magical studies. He still makes mistakes and doesn’t (at least not immediately) succeed at everything. He goes on fun adventures, meets interesting characters, and is stunningly clever. My two main complaints about the first book, Name of the Wind are as follows: (1) the long, corny side story about the almost-dragon undergoing drug withdrawals and (2) the lack of a global crisis to propel the story forward. The first critique is overcome. This book is even more engaging and varied than the first. The second compliant, however, still applies. Kvothe is searching for information regarding the Chandrian and I can see how this motivates his direction throughout the book. But I need more. Right now this remains a frustratingly slow and personal mission. I need to know that the Chandrian are threatening the very functioning of the world. I need a Sauron-esque menace sending dark clouds over the world and breeding armies. He uses the outside frame of the story to hint that trouble abounds in the present-day world, but it is not enough. And here are some of my random impressions: * Elodin cracks me up. I love his teaching antics. * Is it just me or is the Felurian section unnecessarily long? * The Adem plotline is awesome. Their whole system of communication is a nice creation. * The frame story continues to bore me. I started to resent the time it took me away from the larger story. * The concept of watching one’s reputation enlarge and morph continues and is well done. * Bast is an enigma. * We continue to get a coin-by-coin account of Kvothe’s purse: spent four drabs on new shirt, have three talents left, earned one talent in Fishery, spent three coins on much needed food, recalculated interest on debt with Devi. Part of me loves it. Part of me wants Kvothe to use Quicken already.Back to the serenade. Pat (yes, we are on a first name basis) came to a small bookstore, Murder by the Book in Houston. I arrived an hour and a half early to find the seats claimed long ago. By the time Pat arrived, the 300+ people were spilling out the doors into the parking lot. Crowds generally freak me out, but Pat was worth it. The feeling of camaraderie with my fellow nerds also helped. He started off by saying he’s only been awake for fifteen minutes. He talked about how surreal the book tour had been thus far – never more so than when a fan showed off their tattoo of Pat’s signature. He didn’t talk much about A Wise Man’s Fear on the grounds of being vehemently anti-spoiler. He mentioned how various elements were missing from the original draft of Name of the Wind (the outside frame story, Auri, and such). He told us about Tunnel Bob. He wanted Ambrose to be a real threat to Kvothe – a lesson learned from Harry Potter’s nemesis, Malfoy who he thought had the wealth and influence to be a true menace but remained ineffectual. He fussed lovingly over the babies in the crowd. Pat teased that the third book would be “longish” and published in a hundred years. Someone’s cell phone rang during the talk – he raised an eyebrow in their direction and then mused that some of his holdovers from being a teacher didn’t translate well to a book tour. People asked a lot of questions about his blog, which I had never read (shame on me – have since rectified this). He confessed to watching lots of bad fantasy and science fiction movies, but only, of course, so he could make a checklist of all the bad clichés to avoid in his books. His beard is impressive. He signed books for hours. Bottom line: Pat was funny, personable, and truly appreciative of his fans. Support him and indulge yourself in a little escapism. Read his books, people!