4.5/5 starsThe Wise Man’s Fear had all the potential to be better than The Name of the Wind, and although this is still an amazing book, putting it in comparison with its predecessor show how it fell a bit short in quality.Picture: The Wise Man's Fear Part 1 by Marc SimonettiThe plot in The Wise Man’s Fear started on Day 2, straight after the end of The Name of the Wind. Kvothe continues telling his tale to Chronicler with Bast listening to it. If you think the pacing of The Name of the Wind was slow, believe me when I say that Rothfuss managed to slow it down even more. That being said, I still found myself mostly engrossed, and I finished this tome in six days.Are the plot and pacing bad for the story? No, it was great. The Wise Man’s Fear had more danger for the characters than the previous book, and it still followed the root of the series. I’ve always loved reading slow-paced or fast-paced books equally, so this isn’t an issue for me. However, for a 994 pages slow-paced novel, I do believe that Rothfuss could’ve done so much more with the story. Looking at it from a bird’s eye view, the overall narrative was fantastic. Important and pulse-pounding events that give insights to why the present day is in its state were revealed, especially the meeting with a new entity called The Ctaeh. This encounter was intense and groundbreaking; it added an insane depth to Kvothe’s chronicle and the trilogy’s overarching story. After reading this encounter, I realized why The Kingkiller Chronicle fans are so eager for The Doors of Stone; the implication of Ctaeh is terrifying, and the possibility is myriad. The Wise Man’s Fear was good to savor, the world-building intricacies and revelations were also mind-blowing, but admittedly, this novel suffers from the infamous second book syndrome. Again, this book is almost one thousand pages long, but there are still so many of Kvothe’s legendary feats we haven’t seen yet. It felt like Rothfuss focused on many sections longer than it should. They may be necessary Kvothe’s character development, but something related to Kvothe’s legendary feats also needs to be shed upon. For example, compiling from the available two novels (more or less 1,600 pages) of the series so far, out of those pages, Kvothe spent about 600 pages in the University; that’s the entire length of The Name of the Wind already. I love the time Kvothe spent in the University, but I’m starting to think Rothfuss had a horrible grudge with student tuition and student loan as those 600 pages—and most of Kvothe’s chronicle so far—had to do with settling that tuition. We need more information on the Chandrian, The Ctaeh, and more. Picture: Ctaeh by Joe SlucherAlso, in The Name of the Wind, Kvothe’s chronicle told his story right from the time he was 8 up to the time he was 15 years old, The Wise Man’s Fear continues from it until Kvothe is 17 years old. That’s only 2 years of story progression despite the novel being 400 pages longer than The Name of the Wind. IF this isn’t a trilogy, then it would’ve been more acceptable. But there’s only one book left! It seems impossible for Rothfuss to write The Doors of Stone satisfyingly; there’s still so much of Kvothe’s story to be told.My previous paragraph doesn’t mean that I dislike the book. I stated that only to emphasize that The Wise Man’s Fear had a lot of potentials to be superior to its current state. However, the worst part of the novel for me—I doubt this will come as a surprise to anyone who has read this novel already—was Denna and the longevity of the Felurian and sex spree scene. It felt to me like Rothfuss wrote Denna purposely only to make readers hate her; Denna doesn’t have a POV chapter, and Kvothe’s hundreds of pages infatuation with her was tedious and infuriating to read. The romance between Kvothe and Denna decreased my enjoyment of the book; I didn’t mind them in The Name of the Wind, but it only got worse here that I literally facepalmed myself at one point. For me, every time Denna was not in the picture, the story became more compelling. It’s not an exaggeration to say that Denna has become one of the worst heroines of all time for me. Then we also have the controversial Felurian and sex spree scene. Considering the number of angry reactions I’ve heard to these scenes, I did expect that they would be worse. Kvothe, after all, has mentioned at the beginning of the first book that he slept with Felurian and got away with his sanity and life intact. So that was expected. What didn’t sit well with me, and what made these worse, was the length of these scenes in total. I just don’t get why the scene with Felurian and the sex spree have to be so long. Relatively, so many pages—definitely more than it should—were spent on them.It’s a shame. Without these issues I mentioned, The Wise Man’s Fear would’ve struck another complete goldmine for me. Kvothe is a complex main character. He’s kind-hearted, talented, and a charming genius, but he’s not without flaws; he’s hopelessly in love, and his temperament led him into making a lot of rash decisions. His character development—whether you love him or not—felt organic. Plus, the characters, the minimal actions, the music, the world-building, and the prose still works together seamlessly in bringing the strength of the series.“It's the questions we can't answer that teach us the most. They teach us how to think. If you give a man an answer, all he gains is a little fact. But give him a question and he'll look for his own answers.”The other side characters—Bast, Simmon, Wilem, Elodin, Auri, and a new addition, Tempi—continue to captivate me. Although Kvothe remains at the center of the narrative, I doubt The Kingkiller Chronicle would receive the worldwide praise it has right now without the lovable supporting characters. I loved reading their interactions, developments, and I can’t wait to see how the story will conclude for Kvothe and all of them in the last book.The magic system, Sympathy, which in my opinion can be described as a combination of Voodoo Dolls curse mixed with science, gained a lot of exploration here. I was totally enthralled by this; I’ve longed to see how Rothfuss utilized Sympathy in combat, and I got what I wanted here, and it was amazing. Don’t get me wrong; as I mentioned before, The Kingkiller Chronicle isn’t a series filled with battle scenes. Out of the two books available so far, I’m pretty sure that—in total—there are about 50 pages of battle scenes. However, when they’re there, they’re incredibly well-written.Picture: Galvanic Binding by FallonartJust like The Name of the Wind, the writing on music in The Wise Man’s Fear was my favorite part of the novel. Amount-wise, the focus on music is fewer in comparison to The Name of the Wind, but it’s still a rhapsody I can’t ever get enough of. I loved reading how Rothfuss implemented music into the world-building, which I must say again, was fantastic. The Wise Man’s Fear has a magnificent design on the lore; the different cultures from each part of the world were shed upon, and the intricate metafictional stories within stories were mind-blowing and mysterious. Combined with Rothfuss’s highest-ranked prose, The Wise Man’s Fear never fails to capture my attention; it once again displayed Rothfuss’s talent as a storyteller.“Anyone can love a thing because. That's as easy as putting a penny in your pocket. But to love something despite. To know the flaws and love them too. That is rare and pure and perfect.” At the end of Day 2, this particular quote summed up exactly how I feel about The Wise Man’s Fear. Yes, the book has its flaws, and it’s certainly not as good as The Name of the Wind. But despite everything, I can’t deny that I love The Wise Man’s Fear and The Kingkiller Chronicle. Rothfuss can write about anything, and I’m sure I’ll still be entertained by his prose. I will definitely recommend The Kingkiller Chronicle trilogy to anyone who’s looking for a brilliant adult high fantasy series. Even in its unfinished state, the series is now included in one of my favorite trilogy of all-time list. Doors of Stone has the potential of pushing this trilogy into becoming the number one best trilogy I’ve read. That said, I do think Rothfuss has pushed himself into a corner.There are still too many things to resolve in Kvothe’s legend and stories from the past, and in addition, he also has to conclude the present time frame storyline as well. Unless the final book is around 2000 pages long, and Rothfuss confirmed it won’t be that long already, I’m not sure how Rothfuss can craft a satisfying conclusion to the trilogy from it. But if he succeeds, Kvothe’s tale would become even more legendary than its current state."When you wait a few span or month to hear a finished song, the anticipation adds savor. But after a year excitement begins to sour." -Kvothe, The Name of the WindHow about six years for a book? ;)Joking aside, I don’t think The Doors of Stone will be opened for many more years to come. II predict it will be out in 2021, or maybe never, but I’m glad to have read this series. Overall, the unfinished Kingkiller Chronicle is a fantastic high fantasy series. Once again, The Wise Man’s Fear has its flaws, but the utterly engrossing characters and distinct storytelling style were more than enough to overshadow them. Even if it’s never finished, I still would recommend this trilogy to every fantasy reader.Picture: The Wise Man's Fear Part 2 by Marc SimonettiYou can order the book from: Blackwells (Free International shipping)You can find the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions | I also have a Booktube channelSpecial thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Andrew, Annabeth, Ben, Blaise, Diana, Dylan, Edward, Element, Ellen, Gary, Hamad, Helen, Jimmy Nutts, Jennifer, Joie, Luis, Lufi, Melinda, Meryl, Mike, Miracle, Neeraja, Nicholas, Oliver, ReignBro, Samuel, Sarah, Sarah, Scott, Shaad, Xero, Wendy, Wick, Zoe.