Patrick Rothfuss  almost did it again. He  almost  wielded his magic like he did the first time; he  almost teased me in the same way and made me feel like I was part of the story, but, ultimately, stumbled over his own words. This book had the potential to be like the first, though he didn’t quite pull it off. Its main problem was that it simply had too much story, which translated as a complete structural mess. The plot was good, but there was just too much of it in the word count; there was enough material in here for two whole novels, and it was unfortunately crammed into one. Rothfuss needed an editor to tell him no! Back home at the university  So, it’s on with the positives before I lay down the problems in full. Rothfuss’ university is a place full of wonder and magic; he’s system of the arcane is very well devised. It’s not a simple thing. The characters don’t say a few words and produce wonders form their fingertips; they have to work at their talents and discover what they are capable of. This means that though the story Kvothe’s powers develop and begin to grow slowly stronger; he gradually begins to learn more arcane secrets, and has to earn every single one. I love the system, and its explained with a high degree of detail that boarders upon the credible. It’s a little odd, but believable in this world. But, that’s only one side of the school. Like most places in society, it’s also full of the arrogant and the selfish; they wish to thwart Kvothe’s progress. Such is the personality of his adversary, Ambrose. The rivalry began as mere teasing and has now developed into something much more dangerous. The two wield a dark hatred for each other that will only be satisfied when the other is dead. Too much has happened now for simple forgiveness on either side. The addition of this rivalry kept the narrative fairly tense because Kvothe is under constant threat no matter how far he travels away from the university.  The potential of this story came on too fast As much as I love the university, I was very pleased to see the story taken elsewhere. It needed to be taken far away for Kvothe to grow as a person and discover his limits; he needed to go and fully understand the name of the wind. Indeed, he takes a semester off and goes on a rather large adventure. He becomes the confidant of one of the most powerful men in the world, and leads an expedition to hunt some rather nasty bandits. In this, we see the true potential of this character; we see where he may go when he is a man grown in both body and mind.However, in spite of this, I think some things happened way too fast. The author has crammed far too much story into his thousand pages. To my mind, this should have been published into two separate parts of the same book. Each of which could easily have been around seven hundred pages long. This, though, was a complete mess. By doing it the way Rothfuss has, he has sacrificed parts of his story. Life altering events are condensed down into short passages of the book, and are brushed over in their entirety. Don’t get me wrong, the story was excellent, but there was just far too much of it for one novel. I felt like I was just beginning to understand the effects Florian had on him when he was then thrown into an equally as important aspect of his development. There was simple too much, too fast. As a result, I knocked down my rating a whole star. The pacing was all over the place and the structure was a mess. It simply needed more work before publishing.  The ending   I’m trying to keep this review positive because I did really enjoy the book, but the problems keep seeping through my words. Everything was brought together at the end, and many things were resolved. But, it felt like Rothfuss was performing a mass juggling act to do it; he resolved almost everything in fifty pages in a weirdly awkward way. Again, there was just too much in here! However, Kvothe has grown tremendously as a person. I do look forward to seeing how this affects his later life at the university. He will, no doubt, be even more reckless and brilliant. And, I would gladly wait ten years for it, if that’s how long Rothfuss needs to get it perfect! There’s no point releasing a half finished book even if it is still really good. "It had flaws, but what does that matter when it comes to matters of the heart? We love what we love. Reason does not enter into it. In many ways, unwise love is the truest love. Anyone can love a thing because. That's as easy as putting a penny in your pocket. But to love something despite. To know the flaws and love them too. That is rare and pure and perfect."Overall, this was enjoyable, but it needed an editor with an iron fist, and a hard heart, to grab Rothfuss by the beard and shout at him; he needs to be told that he shouldn’t walk in the shadow of Robert Jordan because it could ruin his series. I can see why it takes the author many years to write his books. I guess, at times, this story runs away from him and expands almost to the point of breaking point. I hope the third book is more tight and tamed.  The Kingkiller Chronicle1. The Name of the Wind- A jaw dropping five stars. 2.  The Wise Man's Fear - A messy four stars2.5.  A Slow Regard for Silent Things - A terrible one star