A focused mind is a powerful tool   Frostblood is one of the books which I enjoyed the most. After Red Queen, I was wanting more on blood discrimination. And few days ago I found this piece of writing which I will never forget.The most important thing I liked in this book is its way of writing. It is just beyond amazing. At least for me. I enjoyed reading how author expressed things. How she made me smile by some jokes in conversations, made me excited by the action scenes, made me sad by some scenes. In short this is one of the best writing styles I have ever read. OVERVIEWRuby is a Fireblood, the kind which is not acceptable in the kingdom where the Frost King, Rasmus, rules. Her mother is killed in an attack by the Soldiers of Frost King. In the attack, Ruby is imprisoned by them. But she gets free by the rebels who wants to remove Rasmus from power. They are planning to use Ruby for their purpose. But Ruby has her purpose also. Revenge. Revenge of her mother's death.The he very big surprise is rebels are also the Frostbloods. They are doing this for a reason.Rasmus, Frost King, hates Firebloods for a reason. That's why he kills them.  THINGS I LIKED=>Discrimination, I liked how the world is divided in Firebloods and Frostbloods. =>Arcus, this character is just amazing. My favourite male character after Paxton (from Great Hunt). He was just a mystery till the end of the book. The book revealed his mystery in a very well manner. I liked the way his character was written. Even though I found him rude in the beginning but eventually I came to know why he was rude.=>Arena Scenes, those were very well written. I was literally feeling that I was watching these scenes. I was Feeling the atmosphere of arena. =>Death Scene of Captain (killer of Ruby's mother), Ruby was giving him the chance to save his life. She became soft-hearted because of his daughter and wife were in the arena even though he didn't deserve mercy. But Captain, out of pride, didn't listen. =>Entry of Arcus in Arena, whoa! I couldn't believe what I was reading when this scene came. I was just stunned. But equally feeling good. =>Relationship of Arcus and Ruby, that was nice. I liked them being together. But when the Rasmus came, I got afraid. I was thinking that Ruby might begin to love him. But thank God that didn't came. Otherwise I wouldn't have liked it. Because I had already liked the Arcus and Ruby. I wouldn't have liked Rasmus in between.    Those who can’t control themselves will find themselves under the control of others RANDOM THOUGHTSThis book is divided into two parts. Some people may get bored by the first part. But I didn't. Even though that was little boring. This is the beauty of this book. Even in little boring scenes, author keeps giving us little bits which keep us curious. Regardless, I enjoyed both parts equally. After reading this book, I have found my new favourite author. Elly Blake. I will be looking forward to more books from her.  Weapons and hot tempers make a dangerous pair March 9, 2017