“Stillness was a kind of violence in the hands of people who played at handing out pain.”  2.5★First off let me just start by saying that I did not HATE this book per se; I was just really disappointed by how it turned out and the cliché events that took place. Frostblood follows Ruby who is a Fireblood living in Fors; which is basically a place where she will be hunted down for her powers and what she can do. Along the book she finds her way grows as a character and does everything that is usually done in a typical YA book. List of All the cliché things that happen in this book: Exhibit A: special snowflake of a girl whose powers are the reason the world will be saved the girl however; doesn’t know this and when told she will probably be disbelieving and shocked and in denialExhibit B: the main love interest and Ruby are polar opposites and absolutely hate each other at first before learning to love and accept each other. Now where have I seen this before??Exhibit C: a prophecy of any sort with the mc in it which leads to YES, you guessed it more denial and more “but why am I the chosen one” moments.Exhibit D: the forcing of a completely unnecessary and really awkward love triangle (minor one) down the reader’s throats. LIKE PLS STOP.Honestly, I have a feeling there were more but I just can’t remember all the scenes and details so let me just get down to the actual story *cracks knuckles*. Oh boy, the plot felt extremely rushed and awkward at the first few chapters but the pacing starts to get better towards the middle and the end. I must say that the plot got a whole lot better towards the end and I was surprised by it. The writing style is simple it’s not too over the top but some of the scenes were really boring. The characters were bearable and their development and character arc were quite alright. The plot itself was quite cliché but I did end up enjoying it towards the end because of how the story developed. In the end however, I felt no connection with the characters at all but maybe it will get better for me as the series goes on? The magical elements of this book was quite interesting though and the folklore and myths of their land was interesting to follow. LOW POINTS:a)	the pacing in the beginningb)	that shitty love triangle c)	basically all those tropes in generalHIGHLIGHTS:a)	powers b)	fight scenesc)	Arcus Overall, I would say that this book was alright and I might end up continuing the series to see if it gets better.