I received an Advance Reader Copy from the publisher. This in no way impacted on my view.This book was amazing! I don't know how good this review will be, because I just loved the book so much. The first in a new series, Frostblood follows our heroine, Ruby, who is a Fireblood in a world of Frostblood’s. Her country is ruled by the wicked Frost King, who has his minions seek out and destroy any Fireblood about. Hiding her powers for years, she unwittingly draws the soldiers to her village, and her mother is killed. On the run, she meets a mysterious Frostblood warrior, Arcus, and seeks refuge in a local monastery. There, she begins to learn how to use her powers, and with the help of Arcus, begins to become strong enough to fight back.The world building in this book was fantastic. Considering it’s a debut by Blake, I was overwhelmed with the language and descriptive techniques used. Though it’s been touted as similar to Red Queen and Throne of Glass, I found it blew them both out of the water. Honestly, I was mesmerised from the first page, until the last.The main characters, Ruby and Arcus, were extremely fleshed out, and their characterisations seemed perfect, for their stories. Ruby is headstrong, and doesn’t take to criticism and her training well, to begin with. All she wants is revenge against the Frost King and his army, and she doesn’t really care if she dies doing it. However, she’s one of the strongest Frostblood’s that has ever been seen, and there’s more riding on her than simply revenge. Arcus was brooding, and aloof, but as the book progressed, we learned more and more about him. I had guessed who he was quite early on, but still enjoyed learning more about him. The romance was fairly none existent for the most part of the book, but in the best way. It was that kind of slow burning romance that makes you want to scream and swoon at the sometime. I’m hoping that in book 2, well see a lot more of the romantic side of the story.Thank you, Hodder and Chapter 5, for my ARC. I’m just a bit gutted that I read the book so early, because it means the wait for book 2 is that much longer.