Read on 7th Dec 2010OMG!!! Ahhhhhh! I can’t believe it! That was....it’s so...., I don’t think.....I just can’t..... *sigh*. Let me start again....THAT. WAS. INCRDIBLE! First I have to say....YAY!!! Oh, yes, yes, yes.....Rose and Dimitri got their happily ever after. They ARE TOGTHER!!! It’s one of the best outcomes I’ve ever seen in a book series...ever! Now that that’s out of the way.....Gah, I don’t know if I have the words to describe how brilliant this book was! This entire series has been nothing but a heart-wrenching, roller coaster ride of emotions and events from the very beginning, and it all came to a gripping conclusion that was more or less....utterly perfect! This is my all time fave series. I’ve never loved a book series as much as I love VA and going into this book I knew it was going to be spectacular. It seems like I, and all the other fans, have waited forever after the nail biting ending of Spirit Bound and I’m soooo happy to say that I wasn’t disappointed. From the very beginning the story drew me in. I was gobsmacked with a few of the twists and left gaping throughout the whole book. I literally couldn’t put it down and from start to finish it was practically super glued to my fingers. I read it in one sitting! It was an electricity charged ride and I was desperate to know how Rose was going to get herself out of her current predicament the entire way!From the very moment Dimitri, Adrian and Eddie broke Rose outta jail, a plan orcastrated by Lissa, Christian and Abe, I might add, I was gone.....Nothing and no one could have stopped me reading. Honestly, my house could have been on fire and I wouldn’t have noticed....nor would I have moved until I’d finished reading. Actually, come to think of it.....do I smell smoke? *sniff* *sniff*......All the characters I’ve come to love and adore were here in all their glory. Rose, Dimitri, Lissa, Christian, Adrian, Sydney, Eddie, Abe, Rose’s mum, Jill..... I could go on and on.....they were all there and it was great to see them again. Rose and Dimitri sitting in a tree...K-I-S-S-...oh, whatever....THEY GOT BACK TOGETHER!!! Yay!*does happy dance* I’m so happy right now I can’t even put it into words. After everything they’ve been through, after all the torment and challenges, they’ve finally gotten to the point when they see that they’re soul mates, that they’re meant for each other...something we’ve all known for quite a while. I love Adrian, I do and it breaks my heart that his and Rose’s relationship had to end the way it did (Rose...seriously, I’d shake you for cheating if I wasn’t so happy you and Dimka are back together), but I just can’t deny that I feel like this is the right outcome. Totally. Completely. Rose tried to give her relationship with Adrian a shot, but it just wasn’t right. I’m glad Dimitri finally came to his senses in this book and admitted that he still loved Rose (like that was a secret *rolls eyes*) and that they are going to be together for real. I really feel sorry for Adrian though. I’m really disappointed that Rose cheated on him; I do feel like she should be better than that. But I understand that people make mistakes and we can’t help how our hearts feel. I just feel like Adrian got the raw end of the stick. Dimitri always had Rose’s heart, let’s face it, and I think Adrian deserves to find a girl who will give her whole heart to him and only him. He needs someone to love him that can help him be the best person he can be. And I’m really hoping he finds that in the spin off series, because I don’t feel like his story has been told. It’s not completed. Jill was Lissa’s sibling. I will say that I did see that one coming. It’s something that I think is both obvious and yet it’s not.....it’s a great little sub twist. She’s been under everyone’s noses the whole time. Lissa had a sibling right there at St Vladimir’s and no one knew about it. Totally cool! The only thing I don’t like was how Lissa reacted to Jill. Yes, I get that it was a shock....one hell of a shock....but I also think she could have been a little more inviting and friendlier to her new found sister. Still.....Tasha! It was freaking Tasha!! Never once did I think she could be capable of something like murdering the Queen. She always seemed like such a cool person, an ally. I certainly didn’t think that she’d be the killer, even though I did see her motive beforehand. I just thought she was on Rose’s side, not that she was the one that set her up. But I can see why she did it. I guess I always thought her feelings towards Dimitri were never that strong. I’m thrilled that Lissa became queen. I think it’s a very good progression and evolution of the story. I think that she is the best person to help the Moroi move forward and I hope that takes effect in the spin off series. And Rose is Lissa’a guardian and Dimitri is Christian’s. Is that not perfect or what?!? Rhetorical question, don’t answer that.....of course it is! Now they can be together and still do their jobs and duty. Lord, this book was wonderful. I just can’t say it enough! I really can’t. I don’t know what people are going to say, but I’m incredibly happy with this book. I feel like everything we’ve been through in the whole series has led to this moment, this ending, and I think it’s very fitting.However, I also feel that there were a few loose ends left. A few possibilities that I believe are going to be the focus of the spin off series Bloodlines. First off I want to see what happens to Adrian. I think he more than anyone else deserves some kind of happiness. I want him to find someone and I’m still holding on to my hope that that person will be Sydney. I think that despite her notions of dhampirs, he is more than capable of changing her feelings. I think he’s charming enough to sweep her off her feet. That is unless that other Alchemist Ian doesn’t do it. That’s something I’ll be watching. I want to know what's going to happen to Eddie since he killed that Moroi. How much is that moment going to effect his life? And I’d really love to see how Lissa goes as Queen and what happens to Jill. I want the two of them to get to know one another and bond. And now....It’s over *sob* *sob* I can’t believe it’s actually over! I don’t know what I’m going to do with myself not that it’s finished, I really don’t. This series has been the best I’ve ever read. Throughout Rose’s journey I’ve smiled, laughed, practically cried when a certain Guardian became a Strigoi *cough* Dimitri *cough* and enjoyed almost every single moment, bar a few.... and again I head back to when a certain Guardian became a Strigoi. There’s been the ups and downs, the happy moments and the oh so sad ones, and I feel like the ending, the conclusion, makes all those moments when I wanted to scream out loud (and often did) or cry because everything just seemed so horrible.....totally and utterly worth it!Richelle Mead has created a treasure here and I recommend this series with more heart and soul than I possibly have!!!!