“What?" I asked uneasily. "Why are you looking at me like that?"He shook his head, the smile rueful now. "Because sometimes, a person can get so caught up in the details that they miss the whole. It's not just the dress or the hair. It's YOU. You're beautiful. So beautiful, it hurts me.” 



"His warmth was all around me, as was his love, and again, I felt that completeness. I had that missing piece of my world back. The soul that complemented mine. My match. My equal. "

This was incredible!! I was so afraid what would happen in the entire book! I have mixed emotions about the ending! On the one hand, Rose finally got the happy ending she deserves after everything she is being through. Not only Rose but Dimitri, Lissa and Christian as well. I am so happy for them. On the other hand, I feel sad because of Adrian, Sydney, Jill and Eddie. They all helped Rose and Lissa because they wanted to (except Sydney :P she didn't want to but she helped her anyway) and all of them end up having trouble and broken heart(Adrian)! She hurt my Adrian :(------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------So many things happened I don't know where to start!1)The escape!As we know Rose is charged for killing Queen Tatiana! So, Mikhail, Eddie, Abe, Dimitri and Adrian helped her escape from her cell. They were great team! I love them all!2)Hiding!Rose isn't good at hiding. Sydney had the perfect place for that and Rose caused trouble. Again.Anyway, Sydney takes them to the Keepers, a group of Moroi, dhampirs and humans who live away from modern society. They were a little creepy at first but when you get use to them they are really nice! I really likes Joshua. He is a dhampir. When he met Rose, he immediately liked her and he wanted to marry her. She politely reject him. However, Angeline (Joshua's sister) thought that her bother has proposed to Rose and she accepted, it is tradition that the closest female member of Joshua must battle it out with Rose to see if she's worthy. Angeline started a fight with Rose,and at the end she gave her blessing. That scene was one of my favorite scenes in this book. I laugh so hard. Even Dimitri and Sydney find it amusing.3)Later, Sydney finds a lead about Lissa's sibling. Sonya Karp, who was once Rose's teacher and now she is a Strigoi. Victor and Robert wanted to find Lissa's sibling as well, so all of them met in Sonya's house and Robert changed her back into a Moroi. So, Sonya leads them to Lissa's sibling!4)The unknown child of Eric Dragomir is ...... Jill Mastrano.I will admit I did not see that coming. In this book, I forgot that Jill existed. I don't know why!5)Jill wanted to help Lissa but Victor and Robert kidnap her. Sonya used her spirit abilities to track Victor and Robert. Rose find them and she end up killing Victor. I don't really blame her. I hated him! 6)Back at Court, Lissa, Christian, Adrian and Abe try looking for Tatiana's murderer and they suspected Daniella. But it wasn't Daniella. It was Tasha, Christian's aunt. Poor Christian. First his parent and now his aunt.7)Guilt pleasure!Rose and Dimitri! After Rose killed Victor, she blamed herself. Dimitri wanted to "comfort" her. He admits he loves her and he regrets losing her. They end up make love and she cheated Adrian. Adrian!! I will admit that Rose and Dimitri are perfect together. They belong to each other but I didn't like Rose cheated on him. 

“What was love, really? Flowers, chocolate, and poetry? Or was it something else? Was it being able to finish someone's jokes? Was it having absolute faith that someone was there at your back? Was it knowing someone so well that they instantly understood why you did the things you did—and shared those same beliefs?” 

8)I hate Tasha. Not only framed Rose but she accidentally shoot Lissa but Rose jump in front of her and takes the bullet. As a result, the bond between Lissa and Rose was gone.9)Lissa was crowned as new queen! I think she got this!10)The break up

“I loved you!" he yelled. He jumped up out of his chair so quickly I never saw it coming. "I loved you, and you destroyed me. You took my heart and ripped it up.” 

My poor Adrian! I feel so bad for him!11) I love Abe!

“Ah, my daughter,ʺ he said. ʺEighteen, and already youʹve been accused of murder, aided felons, and acquired a death count higher than most guardians will ever see.ʺ He paused. ʺI couldnʹt be prouder.” 

12)Summarizing, Rose and Dimitri end up together. Lissa and Christian end up together as well. Lissa is now the queen. Adrian ends up with a broken heart. Jill have problems with royals. Eddie is accused of killing a Moroi and Sydney has problems with the Alchemists!