By the Angel 4 Stars!”We do not get to choose when in our lives we feel pain,” said Matthew "It comes when it comes, and we try to remember, even though we cannot imagine a day when it will release its hold on us, that all pain fades. All misery passes. Humanity is drawn to light, not darkness.”I want to make this very, very clear that I am very much a Cassie Clare fan, The Infernal Devices is my favourite series and holds a very special place in my heart, so you can imagine my pure delight when I found out that Chain of Gold was coming out I was so excited to see my favourite characters once more and get to explore their lives as parents. What I didn’t expect was to fall in love with a whole new group of Shadowhunters (well I did, just not so quickly). Before I begin I want to give a MASSIVE shout out to Katie for Buddy Reading this with me. Many melt downs, listening to my theories and then telling me some of yours (just saying we nailed it in some parts). I thought I was going to enjoy it either away, but reading it with you made the experience so much more special so thank you!If you’re going to read this I strongly suggest you read The Infernal Devices at a minimum but there are lots of little nods to other novellas throughout and in particular a story with a certain character is brought to light in a particular novella.The story starts off a little slow HOWEVER, I think it was needed. There are  a lot of new characters, and it was interesting to see and learn the dynamic of them all. We are back in London and there has been something strange going on… there is no sightings of demons, however more and more attacks keep cropping up and some of them happen at lets say questionable times and the result of this makes the Shadowhunter have to come together and sort through a plan. When you compare it to the other books in this world it is its own book, there are some similarities in the sense of strong bonds, something is going on and the younger generation are going to investigate, but some of the usual cliches we see such as forbidden romance, a love triangle are not there and I think it made it it’s own. Just to point out that the love triangle in both TID and TDA are one of my favourites and the forbidden love trope is always *Chef Kiss*. This had the absolute perfect balance of having TID references in, there wasn’t too much where it became over bearing and it was sometimes so subtle other than the mentions of worms and demons… still gets me overtime, but the story is itself.Before going into the character portion of this review I want to point out that I have seen some negativity towards having so many LGBTQ+ Characters and I am completely baffled. I just want to point out a few things, it is always important to have representation in a book and Cassandra Clare always brings that. This is a fantasy book that has half Angels, Demons, Warlocks, Ghosts and many more but you can’t see why there are so many LGBTQ+ people? Finally just because in the 1900s people weren’t always outspoken about their sexuality and/or gender doesn’t mean it didn’t happen. I personally loved seeing so much diversity within the characters!Added Bonus of Will and Tessas’ WeddingGoing into this, I knew hands down that I would cry. I just knew it, it just made me feel so happy and overjoyed BUT it also made me feel ridiculously sad just thinking about Jem. I think what made it so special was Charlottes words, the added touches with the Cane (I AM DESTROYED OKAY). It was even better than anything I could of asked for. I hope we get more little snippets of them in their twenties just living their life, because it makes me so ridiculously happy it’s crazy!CharactersWe have a new set of Shadowhunters for me to cry over and love with all of my heart and here are just some of my thoughts, just to warn you I will be gushing away, in a quick round up I genuinely really liked 90% of the characters, despised a few handful and intrigued about others but I have a feeling that they will come into it a lot more as the story continues.”That’s everyone’s dream, isn’t it, really? Instead of many who give you a little piece of themselves, one who gives you everything”Cordelia right now is probably my favourite of the new characters. We’ve seen a lot of female characters by Cassie, but I think Cordelia brings something new and exciting. She doesn’t think she’s the best, she works and trains so hard, painfully loyal to her friends and family. I low key kind of love her relationship with Alastair in the sense that she sees herself as the annoying younger sister and just wants to be thee for him which was SO sweet and she really puts herself on the line for other people. You know!We have super sweet Lucie. For me personally Lucie has a super interesting arc that I don’t want to go too much into because of spoilers but one chapter in particular was so well executed I was sat there screaming at my book like OH MY GOD! It was just amazing. Lucie and Cordelias relationship is lovely and you can see that they both well and truly care about one another, I am invested in this friendship hands down!Anna is SUCH an interesting character. After reading about her in the novella in Ghosts of The Shadow Market I was very excited to see her in this. I love her attitude, and you can see how much she cares. Her continuous love interests and her reactions had me dying it was just so funny. This is one more character I can’t wait to read more about! To quote Anna… ”They didn’t… and neither did you.”Keeping it 100, I am not a fan of Grace. I just, from the very start I did not trust her what so ever. She was just too “perfect” and sickly sweet and I just couldn’t work her out, as the story progressed I just disliked her even more, saying this I am very very interested to find out more about her.The Merry Thieves”But we suffer for love because love is worth it.”Where to begin with James? To start off you can tell he is Wills’ son, he has that easy charm but then he is like Tessa in the sense that he is quite a calming presence. I loved seeing him with the shadows and how relationships progressed. He stepped up to a “leader” role and you can see how much he cares.Matthew is probably the most complex out of the shadow hunters, and it is very useful to of read his backstory. I really really feel for him in Chain of Gold. He has an issue when it comes to alcohol and sometimes like to play the fool. You can see his unyielding protection and love when it comes to James and there are some truly heartfelt moments. Out of all of the shadow hunters this time around Matthew is my favourite male (sorry, but Cordelia is my Queen right now).”We don’t always love people who deserve it”I’m finding it slightly hard to talk a lot about Thomas and Christopher/Kit so I think it’s easier to merge them together for this book. I can see a story arc playing out for Thomas very clearly in my mind, and I am here for it, but after things panned out I’m wondering HOW>! As for Christopher I think out of all of the characters he’s the least I know about, hopefully we will get to see more!Just to point out the next Characters aren’t part of The Merry Thieves and I know that particularly in Chain of Gold Matthew and Thomas take more of a centre stage compared to Grace and Anna but I didn’t want to break them up!Out of all of the character I feel the most conflicted towards Alastair, you can see SO much potential with him, and he is such an interesting character. He’s quite mysterious and we do learn little bits about him (not all good either) and I was well and truly on my way to full on rooting for him, I mean I still am but I’m kind of angry with him as well!I’m saying it now I LOVE Jesse, he’s such an interesting character and his relationship with Lucie was one of my favourites. The interactions they have I was just oohing and ahhing, but he is so selfless and my heart literally broke at one point for him. I think that as the story progresses I am intrigued to see what’s going to happen with him. You let me be something I had never been before, even when I was living. A Shadowhunter.We got to see Papa and Mama Herondale AKA Will and Tessa and it was so lovely to see them being parents! I think what was so sweet was how much there loved showed even after all of those years together. You see their protective sides come out when it came to their children, nieces and nephews. You still got to see Wills silly and fun loving side and Tessa with her fondness. You still get so many lovely quotes from these two and see them in a different light. They’re still the same but just with the view of being parents and slightly more mature!”A better Shadowhunter and a better man,” said Will. “All the best of me, I learned from Jem and your Mother...”Finally last but not least we get Jem, it’s interesting to see him in his Silent Brother role, but with him still knowing who he truly is. I adored his interactions with the younger generation and the older ones and he really is that figure that many people look to for some form of guidance and knowledge. Even though I expected it and I KNOW what happens with his story Arc up until a certain point it still breaks my little heart. What I liked?- Lets state a few obvious ones in a bulk here: Back into the Shadowhunter world I go, Will Herondale, my number one book love, seeing so many people from TID, my heart was so happy, SO many references to TID I was overjoyed!- So much love and friendship, honestly I don’t care what anyone says, the friendships across these books are always so well done- Seeing little snippets of Jem, Will and Tessa had me weeping, by 90 pages in I’d cried twice.- Some of the more “action” scenes had me completely gripped, they were done so well and I could just see it all playing out, it was so intense and had me gripped!- Cortana I found it super interesting this time around, we all know about Cortana but I’m pretty sure it did something I haven’t seen it do before and I was like oooooh gurl- It had me questioning a lot, I thought I had some things figured out and then something would happen and it would completely flip my opinion.- Horses… and while we’re on it even though they’re not linked what so ever. Ghosts.- The Warlocks that are Malcolm and Hypatia, it was interesting to see a reference in this knowing what we do I was like OOOOOH- SO MUCH SIBLING LOVE!- The amount of times I must of said “What is going on”- Sending of dresses and Sonas reaction, I just knew who had sent them it was great- A certain Herondale Star popping up… consistency is key!- Magbus turning up six hours early and his response being “bloody hell” it was hilarious!- All of the tension… ooooft- OSCAR, who’s a good boy!- A erm, certain locket and what is inside it…- Gideon and Gabriel, oh I missed my favourite brothers!- Hair colours…I’m just going to say, that where it left off I am feeling very very anxious for what’s to come but I’m so excited, one whole year! Guess the countdown will begin, but I am very very excited!What I didn’t like?My only complaint is I wish we’d see more of Anna, Christopher and Thomas. I think from this first book we only got a slight glimpse into who they are, however that means that we will hopefully get to see a lot more of them as the series continues!“But at least we can always pick up a book and read it anew. Stories offer a thousand fresh starts.”Final thoughts…My heart is so full with happiness, I can’t begin to explain how much these books and stories mean to me. I think because of my love for The Infernal Devices I was scared to see how this would pan out, but it was so enjoyable and I literally cannot wait for book 2 to be released! --------Re-Read 12.09.2022My first re-read of this series, I have to say I still really really enjoyed this one, the characters really drive this series for me and upon the re-read you can see certain things, I think my only issue with this is that it is so long and I think it could of been slightly compressed. Still very enjoyable!---------09.03.2020By The Angel!That was hands down one of my most anticipated reads of the year and it did not let me down what so ever!What an amazing introduction to the start of the New Years.Currently sobbing my head out at Will and Tessas wedding but I knew I was going to!Full review to come and just to warn you it will more than likely be a long one cause your girl is OBSESSEDAll Cassandra Clare Reviews:The Infernal DevicesClockwork Angel - 5 StarsClockwork Prince - 5 StarsClockwork Princess - 5 StarsThe Infernal Devices (Manga) Reviews:Clockwork Angel - 5 StarsClockwork Prince - 5 StarsClockwork Princess - 5 StarsThe Last HoursChain of Gold - 4 StarsChain of Iron - 5 StarsChain of Thorns - 4 StarsThe Mortal InstrumentsCity of Bones - 5 StarsCity of Ashes - 4 StarsCity of Glass - 4 StarsCity of Fallen Angels - 2 StarsCity of Lost Souls - 3 StarsCity of Heavenly Fire - 4 StarsThe Eldest CursesThe Red Scrolls of Magic - 3 StarsThe Dark ArtificesLady Midnight - 5 StarsLord of Shadows - 5 StarsQueen of Air and Darkness - 5 Stars————03.03.2020Happy release day for Chain of Gold! Hope you all have the best time reading it!Secretly jealous because Amazon ruined it and I haven’t got my copy even though I preordered it when it first came out...Let’s hope I get my Waterstones delivery tomorrow :)————-02.03.2020TOMORROW THIS WILL ARRIVE... I get to see my love again!I also booked off Wednesday cause I’m that person who needs personal time with their books...————15.01.2020It is the year 2020, in less than two months Chain of Gold will be here, I will have at least four copies and two book boxes of this, and if you dare be terrible and not give these character ALL of the love I will Riot (Zoe will join me as well)—————13.12.18LOOK AT THAT COVER I AM IN LOVE!————28.07.18 So I’m reading TID (Clockwork Prince) and it’s just dawned on me.Page 300“We who are immortal, we are chained to this life by a chain of gold, and we dare not sever it for fear of what lies beyond the drop” said MagnusCoincidence? I think not!—————When you need a book more than life itself, because your one true love is finally coming back to you... I. need. this. now.WILL HERONDALE, sooooooooooooon!