Me: ahahaha I'm so over Cassie Clare. She's really just milking this series. Gosh when will she stop with the recycled tropes?!Also me: I would die a thousand deaths for Will Herondale and his babies [ a list of the short stories that feature the crew from Chain of Gold can be found at the end of this review ⤵️]The Shadowhunters of the London Institute have had 10 years of peace. The younger generation have been raised surrounded by love and with little exposure to the hardships their parents faced in their youth. For some odd reason demons have been avoiding London. But that changes when the Carstairs and Blackthorn families move to the city. A series of demon attacks leave several Shadowhunters poisoned and London goes on lock down. Nobody in, nobody out. And no help from the rest of the Clave. Cordelia Carstairs along with her soon to be parabatai Lucy Herondale her brother James and his friends find themselves not entangled in the search for answers and a cure. Friendships, secrets, betrayal and love - this book is everything we adore about the Shadowhunter Chronicles “The point of stories is not that they are objectively true, but that the soul of the story is truer than reality. Those who mock fiction do so because they fear the truth.”TID was one of my favourite series ever. So when Cassie announced she'd be writing about the next generation of Herondales/Carstairs/Lightwoods/Fairchilds I, like everyone one else in this fandom, freaked out! Yes it took years of patience, but it's finally here and it did not dissapoint.To me the plot felt splendidly thought out. This is a generation raised by loving parents with hardly any need for them to fight demons. But still, none of them are perfect, they all have they own problems. The reason I thought this was so, is because as we all know, YA authors are fond of killing off the protagonists parents. Happy and whole families just aren't a normal feature in YA. So it was really interesting to see how Cassie would tackle this.I quickly came to adore the characters but that is probably helped by the fact that I am familiar with them due to all the short stories and snippets Cassie has releases over the years. In true CC fashion, we had a group of friends who love each other fiercely and who, despite knowing they shouldn't, take it upon themselves to get things done while the adults and the Clave argue and bicker. Cordelia was an awesome MC. She is fierce and sweet and loyal, but also a bit lonely. I loved how welcoming the Merry Theives were to her. I absolutely loved getting to know more about Cortana. Like wow, I thought that sword was amazing before but now I'm just in awe. Gotta get me one of those 😂. “I never quite thought of friendship like that—as something that makes you more than you are.”The Merry Thieves were precious. I loved their dynamic, their banter and how much they care for each other. I also liked James's place as leader. “Each of you follows his own star—but you are the thread that binds all four together. You are the one who sees what everyone needs, if anyone requires extra care from their friends, or even to be left alone. Some groups of friends drift apart, but you would never let that happen.”“Do not let those who cannot see the truth tell you who you are. You are the flame that cannot be put out. You are the star that cannot be lost. You are who you have always been, and that is enough and more than enough. Anyone who looks at you and sees darkness is blind.”So yes, this book is jam packed with new characters I love. But there were also ones I hated. *cough*Grace, Charles, Tatiana*cough*The only reason I didn't give a full five stars is because I thought there was one trope the CC is recycling once again that everyone is tired of and was really unnecessary. yet again another love triangle *sigh*The ending was fantastic. It has me so desperate for the next book and I sincerely hope we get it soon!‹ Thank you to the publishers for sending me a copy in exchange for an honest review ›_____• WHAT TO READ OR RE-READ BEFORE CHAIN OF GOLD •When they said you can read this without reading of the previous Shadowhunter books, THEY LIED. A lot of people were confused and couldn't keep track of all the characters and families. At least read The Infernal Devices before jumping into this. If you haven't read Chain of Gold yet and wondering which short stories feature our crew from CoG that you might want to reread, I've made a list: The Bane Chronicles: 4. The Midnight Heir - [very important!!] about James Herondale, set just before COG Tales from the shadowhunter academy: 3. The Whitechapel Fiend - about Tessa and Will and the kids are still babies. Not very relevant to COG but still interesting to see domestic will/tessa4. Nothing but Shadows - [important] James at the academy Ghost of the Shadow market: 2. Cast Long Shadows - [important] about Matthew Fairchild3. Every Exquisite Thing - about Anna Lightwood ______My reviews for:The Infernal Devices SeriesBook 1: Clockwork AngelBook 2: Clockwork PrinceBook 3: Clockwork Princess[Sorry no reviews for TMI, I read it too long ago and don't plan to re-read]The Dark Artifices SeriesBook 1: Lady MidnightBook 2: Lord of ShadowsBook 3: Queen of Air and Darkness