Fasten you seatbelts, folks! It's going to be a bumpy ride!Watch out!  Delirium  is behind the wheel and she's looking for  Destruction!She misses her brother, the one that got away: Donde esta mi hermano?  She stares at the world with two mismatched eyes: one emerald green, the other pale blue through which silver flecks flicker and swim like a shoal of tiny fish.  . The Endless are a family, but what's a good word for 'disfunctional'? Is  Delirium  the only one who really cares? Who's going to help her when she feels like someplace where nobody goes anymore?  The number you dialed does not answer  Dream  is almost catatonic, as another of his love interests leaves him stranded in the rain. It's raining in my hometown right now as I write my review, cold and relentless autumn drizzle that echoes the general tone of this volume.  Despair  is busy looking out from behind every mirror in the world and  apathy hangs like damp mist in the chill air .  Desire  flatly refuses to get involved in the quest to fill the empty chair at the family table, but she's the devious one, and could be plotting in secret against  Dream . And  Destiny  as always walks the twisted paths of his labyrinth, holding his padlocked book of revelations close to his chest and speaking in riddles.  Death  is a little more helpful, bu who is really eager to meet her?The collection is titled Brief Lives, but what is 'brief' is all in the eye of the beholder.  Delirium  as the youngest and most volatile Endless deals in ephemera, from party-coloured leaping frogs to chocolate lovers  losing themselves in a melting frenzy of lust, spending the last of their brief borrowed lives in a spasm of raspberry cream and fear.  . Mortals are insignificant cinders, even the lucky ones who managed somehow to cheat time and history and fate : You lived what anybody gets, Bernie. You got a lifetime. No more. No less. The Gods themselves fade away and learn to adapt, to live without the daily devotion of their former faithful. Pharamond, Ishtar - can you recognize them walking among us, dreaming of past glories, of absolute powers and unquestioned faith? Older than the gods are the Endless, witnesses of the birth of the universe, relentless and unmovable for all eternity. Or are they?  the endless are merely patterns, the endless are ideas, the endless are wave functions, the endless are repeating motifs, the endless are echoes of darkness.  To gaze upon a cockatrice is permanent and never nice.For it can never be denied, life isn't pleasant, petrified. What's the name of the word for permanence?  Change  For unquestioning respect and eternal devotion all one needs is a dog.  Meet Barnabas, one of the best new additions to the series, a born art critic with an acid tongue. Other guest stars flash on and off the screen, trying to escape the attention of the higher powers:  the Lapps believe that it is unwise in any way to attract the attention of the dancing northern lights, or they will carry you off into the sky, to be one with them forever.  A shaman looks upon a different landscape from us commoners, his wisdom comes from the subconscious, from deep and dark and mysterious places. To bite your own shadow is neither easy nor painless. My review is broken and directionless and obscure, but so is the journey the Endless take. Remember,  Delirium  is driving. The quest is also dangerous. After all,  Destruction  doesn't want to be found, and he has taken precautions against intruders. Deadly precautions. Pain and sadness are constant companions on the route, despite the occasional flash of humour from Barnabas or the raven. Premonitions of doom pile up on  Dream's  shoulders, but he can neither abandon the quest, nor change the path laid down in  Destiny's  book. So how did  Destruction  manage to escape?Gaiman's poetry flies on broken wings in and out of the story:  Unripe mind apples tumble screaming through the sky, and the stars gasp in brief flashes of pain and time. The artwork is often raw and jagged, but Jill Thomson always manages to capture the emotional frame of the characters. The writing is superb, carrying the story forward to an elegant and disturbing finish line. “What's the name of the word for the precise moment when you realize that you've actually forgotten how it felt to make love to somebody you really liked a long time ago?” Did I manage to muddle the waters enough? Don't give up, it will be all made clear by the end of the story arc. Don't read on if you are afraid of spoilers: The management cannot be held responsible for anything lost or found within the Library of Dreams.  Because there's no such thing as a one sided coin. Because there are two sides to every sky.Worlds don't last. and stars and galaxies are transient, fleeting things that twinkle like fireflies and vanish into cold and dust. Not knowing everything is all that makes it okay, sometimes. ... but  Death  disagrees with  Destruction  and as usual brings closure to all debate:  “She said we all not only could know everything. We do. We just tell ourselves we don't to make it all bearable.” Kundera talked about the unbearable lightness of being. Gaiman sees hope in the everlasting changing nature of existence where even the Endless are revealed as dialectic principles, two sided coins:Death defines Life, Dream defines Reality ( One cannot begin a new dream without abandoning the last ), Despair defines Hope, Destiny defines Freedom, Desire defines Hatred, Delirium was once Delight, and Destruction - he is now concerned with Creation - he paints, he sculpts, he writes poetry, he cooks.  Nothing new can exist without destroying the old. There is comfort of a sort to be found in the darkest moments, knowing the world will go on, with or without you. Old debts are paid  Orpheus  , new friends are found  Barnabas  , and Morpheus journey continues with book 8. I guess I sound like a broken record, exclaiming after each new volume : 'This is the best one yet!', but that's the way I felt so far, and you'll probably hear it again in a week or so.