Black Leopard, Red Wolf is an epic sword-and-sorcery fantasy novel from Booker Prize-winning author Marlon James. This is not literary fiction dressed up in genre clothing! What it is: fantasy at its freshest and most exciting, deeply rooted in African history and myth.Lone wolf Tracker and a rag tag bunch of shapeshifters, witches and mercenaries reluctantly team up to locate a missing child, encountering along the way all manner of winged demons, evil spirits, slavers, white scientists, and warring royals. Their quest takes them all over a spectacularly imagined fantasy world, where all is not what it seems. It’s a dark, dizzying, vibrant, surreal immersion into African folklore; a grotesquery of nightmares. The book is structured as a picaresque which reduced to its most simplistic terms consists of: Tracker and his band of travellers arrive in location – describe location’s physical features, politics, culture – encounter some bad guys – describe bad guys’ physical features, magic powers, motivations – BADASS ACTION SEQUENCE – and repeat. Obviously, it’s much more sophisticated than that, but you get the idea. It's an odyssey. The cycle occurs more times than is strictly necessary for the overarching narrative to unfurl, but really this is the kind of book that’s about the journey more than the destination. You’re not just reading to find out how it ends (though there is that too) but for everything that happens along the way; for the incredible, vivid world that is wrought; for the characters and creatures that inhabit it. In this way, it is much closer to older storytelling forms - oral tradition, ancient folktales and myths - than to the three-act structure of most contemporary novels.Potential criticisms of Black Leopard, Red Wolf – side characters are underdeveloped, political machinations are both murky and simplistic – are mitigated by the fact that this seems to be all part of James’s master plan for the trilogy and will be redressed in parts 2 & 3. Meanwhile, this book manages to subvert almost every fantasy trope. Tracker himself is less ‘hero on noble quest’ and more like a world-weary PI from a hard-boiled noir, albeit one with enhanced abilities. From there, his character develops in fascinating and heartbreaking ways.The focus on one character means that the book sustains much the same intensity and tone throughout its 600-plus pages. There aren’t the usual narrative tricks to propel you along, and we know from the beginning that Tracker at least survives to tell his tale. So it’s best to sink into the story, just let it unfold the way Tracker wants to tell it, and trust that James is in total control of his vision. Tracker has a way of skipping ahead, then circling back; of telling tales within tales, until you’re thoroughly disoriented and have forgotten how many levels deep into story-inception you are. But he also provides helpful recaps along the way, invaluable for keeping the threads straight in a book this long.It’s interesting that James has chosen to give us only Tracker’s slippery first person POV here, rather than alternating POVs of different characters. We know from interviews that the trilogy will include other voices and perspectives, but we’re made to wait for them. Is Tracker telling the truth? Everything we think we know from Black Leopard, Red Wolf can be turned on its head in book 2 and that’s sooo exciting. I just hope he writes fast!