My mom got me a book of African folklore when I was a kid but she didn’t check it out very carefully, and the end of the story is that it was full of dicks. Fuuullllll of dicks. I learned a lot from that book. One guy threshes grain with his dick. The trickster Eshu-Elegba is gender-fluid with a ten-foot dick.“It was a very sensual and sensory world," says Marlon James, who’s woven African folktales - their tricksters and their shape-changing and their dicks - into this magisterial first chapter in the African Lord of the Rings. Or, people are calling it the African Game of Thrones because it’s cooler to say that, and also because there’s a lot of violence, and that’s fine too. James has mixed a lot of things up in his cauldron here. It’s definitely fantasy, anyway. You have your epic journey, your band of adventurers. There are memorable villains: the ceiling-walking omoluzu reminded me of dementors. There are magical settings: the Darklands are like Mirkwood.James, the lauded author of 2015’s Brief History of Seven Killings, has written a fantasy epic that stands out because it’s African. Also because it’s full of dicks, and I mean that in a gay way because it is very gay, and between that and our hero’s signature catch phrase, “Fuck the gods!" which he says on nearly every page, half the fun of this book is imagining some Midwestern housewife picking this up by accident and her hair going gray overnight like a Victorian widow. I don’t know if the gay African fantasy market is underserved - seriously, I have no idea - but here you go, dudes.Much of the African stuff is taken directly from folklore. Asanbonsam, a pink-skinned cannibal, is real. So are the Eloko (grass trolls) and the Impundulu (lightning vampire). James has tapped a rich vein.It’s a little hard to keep track of the plot sometimes? James is one of these authors who think it’s tacky to just tell you what’s happening, they have to fancy it all up with words and whatever. It’s not my favorite thing. They’re looking for a kid and I don’t honestly care who he is, it’s a MacGuffin, let’s get on with the weird fights. But the imagination is gripping enough to make up for it, and I think this will become a fantasy classic. There’s a whole treehouse city, and wait til you hear how it’s powered! (It’s awful.) Michael B. Jordan bought the rights to it, like, instantly, so you can expect to see that soon. It’s got nifty magic, exciting adventures, and memorable characters. And it’s full of dicks.