Well, I had to go back to this one because it carried on the plot from the first three Heralds of Valdemar books. Unfortunately, that plot didn't turn up until around 70%. Book 1 - Pretty much covered that in my original review when I DNF'd this one. Thankfully, shortly after I picked this up again, the ladies went off to the tower and I didn't have to read anymore about their misogynistic tendencies. Book 2 - The Skybolts! Who instantly start getting annihilated before I know or care about any of them, and then Kero takes a side trip through Karse where she runs in to the Herald Eldan, of all people. All the wandering through the wilderness was a bit too much tell vs show. When Kero finally gets back with the Bolts, they're again short changed to separate Kero from them. There was some interesting world-building in how the mercenaries in Rethwellan operate, but aside from that, this was pretty meh.Book 3 - Finally, Kero gets Valdemar. Finally, they battle Hadron. Finally, we get some decent battles on page. This part made up for a lot but the ending was on the cheesy side and lost it some points. Like I've said, I do like Kero. She's kind of a warrior princess type, and I like her "take no nonsense" attitude and that she insists on being her own person. I don't remember Eldan from the earlier books, but I get the feeling he was in there somewhere. He's a nice dude, though his method of communication is a little on the skevvy side. He didn't go full Edward Cullen, but it was a near thing. Am I glad I read it? ... I guess. Could I have gone on without reading it? Absolutely. But it was good to get the full background on Kero, and knowing fully what that sword, Need, is helped make that part much less annoying. Original review:DNF @ 17%Why do these women insist on treating other women like crap, when they're supposedly all about protecting women? But all women are hysterical biddies and useless. I mean, how dare they be upset about their peaceful feast getting interrupted by invaders who kill and maim everyone? And it's only the women who are described this way. I guess the men all have sense enough to be stoic and clear-headed. I know these were written in the 90s, but I've read books far older than this that treated women and womanhood 1000 times better.Kero's better than her grandmother, but Kethry and Tarma haven't improved at all, despite 100+ years to learn some compassion.