MCGA: 4.5 Sword of Summer: ★★★★(★)/5 Hammer of Thor: ★★★★★/5Ship of the Dead: ★★★★★/54.5 Golden Stars92%things kept happening in every page so fast! I never got bored during reading this!2nd favourite in this series!& a quick read!just in case you forgot,Magnus is Hilarious!✦In case you're wondering, Old York looks absolutely nothing like New York.It looks older.Magnus Chase, master of description. You're welcome.Magnus & Percy (don't forget Apollo!; generally any First-person version uncle Rick writes is awesome! even Sadie in the Kane Chronicles!) were the books I AcTuAllY EnJoYeD reading in first person (also Pendragon at some points)✦ My mead cask is angry. And when my mead cask is angry, people DIE!....those awkward moments...✦ THAT AWKWARD moment when you lock eyes with two friends hanging in cages in a giant’s kitchen. And one of them recognizes you and begins to shout your name, but you do not want your name shouted.Blitzen staggered to his feet....and yelled, “MAG—”“—NIFICENT!” I bellowed over him. “What beautiful specimens!✦ That awkward moment when you jump out a window because your friend jumped out a window, then you remember that your other friend can fly.with his magical talking hilarious sensitive sword!Really enjoyed this book! good times full of laughter. LOL.-Characters: ★★★★★/5Alex is my favourite too.- Magnus, it may shock you to learn that I do not have every talent in the world. Just most of the important ones.Magnus is awesome!✦ I saw my problem immediately.I should never have introduced Alex to Percy Jackson. She had learned way too much from his relentless training methods. Maybe Alex couldn't summon sea animals, but she could turn into them. That was just as bad.✦ - You’re a strange person.- I prefer the term fabulously weird.(I do to!)SHIIIIIIIIIIIP! SHIIIIP! SHIIP!not of the dead!Sam was amazing! I can add her into my list of favourite female characters.Blitz & Hearth!all the characters are perfect! (& this is what I call a perfect book)-Plot: ★★★★(★)/5the story was absolutely amazing! every second, every page, something was happening. as I said, I didn't get bored at all!tho I expected the flyting with Loki to be funnier as, you know, it was Magnus! but it was beautiful, with moral value.-Writing Style: ★★★★★/5like always, well-written with funny hilarious language! Rick knows the exact kind of jokes I didn't know I needed my entire life! (or wishing someone made jokes about it.)for example:Since I didn't have time to murder the entire murder...& I was like 'OMG! YES! FINALLY!also 'THAT WAS GENIUS!'or using the pop culture references & memes, which I LOVE!-World Building: ★★★★★/5fantastic & fun & believable as always.-Idea: ★★★★★/5just one word, legend (which can be both description or reaction!)-GOOD TIMES!THANK YOU UNCLE RICK!