https://solseit.wordpress.com/2019/09...The second time around just confirms the stellar review of the first time around. I am amazed at how good this series really is. There is so much content, the world building builds upon itself every time in an incredibly powerful and convincing way each book; the characters are just well defined and developed - the women in this story are authentic to me, they are genuinely powerful women (the White, Karris, Teia) with their weaknesses and they know what to do with strenghts and weaknesses. I cannot wait to dive into the next book and then, finally, book #5!- - - -I want to make some sense of this book - yet, I just finished it so it is going to be an "emotional" review. First and foremost, I am so glad this book focused  on the Chromaria primarily. It was time to know more about it, to get a better understanding of the political and otherwise powers at stake .I did not have a problem with any character  besides Aliviana Danavis but I think the book left her story line at such a big intersection I think she might come around! Where to start as to characters?Kip  (the Lip) : I have so much fun when his story line starts (or resumes). It was such an amazing trip for him (and for me as a reader).  I loved the fact that he is a living deck now and I cannot wait to know more about this particular ability. I had such a blast on this trip during this death. It was such an impressive different approach. I was astonished! Teia. What is there not to love about a young, strong, independent, stubborn and reliable person like she is? I cannot wait to see what will happen to her in the next book  and that creepy cloak . Karris is my favorite of all, especially now that her life really took a different turn!  I think now she will be the provider of the family although I am not sure what happened to Gavin in the last epilogue! Gavin himself is really going through hell here. The White is an amazing mentor. I am really glad her character is just touching the right notes at all times. I wonder if there is going to be a short story about the young White. I would totally read it!The story itself is just getting better and better. It introduced more depth, history, mythology, folklore. It is just an amazing book to go through because it unfolds so many aspects that trigger my curiosity. I end the book by having a much better understanding of the world, the political and religious system. In essence, I am going to be in a dark place until The Blood Mirror will be published!