This is a book which I have been meaning to get to for quite a while (since the ending of the second was rather explosive) and I am so glad that I finally got the chance whilst doing an illustration project. It was the perfect time for me to read (or rather listen as I have the audiobook) and enjoy the story because it was fast and exuberant, fun and shocking all at once and it keep the creativity and determination flowing. This is the continuation of the story from books #1 and #2 but honestly, this one was better than both of them for me because I practically *lived* inside the world and was alongside all the characters whilst I was drawing. Everything about this series is just getting better the further into it we go, and I have to say with some of the revelations we have at the ending of this (and some of the events) I just NEED book #4 NOW! After Robin Hobb's new book this has just shot up to the top of my most-anticipated-sequel list! Moving on to what this books does better. Once again we're following Kip, a young boy in training to become a Black Guard. He's also the son of the Prism (basically the ruler of the world) and he has very powerful Superchromat abilities (he can 'draft' lots of 'colours' and use them as 'magic' - very simplistic version but I don't want to give it away and it's a system which becomes clearer the more to read the books). Kip is a fairly self-deprecating character at first, but by this point of the story we have seen him develop and grow thanks to the events which have forced these changes. He still has his moments, but honestly I kind of love him as a character now even though he can be a bit whiney at times :DNext we have Gavin Gyle - The Prism himself. Gavin is full of himself and rude to just about anyone, but actually beneath all that he's doing his best for the Chromeria (leading people who rule and govern) and the land generally. He's a pretty brave character and he too has changed and grown in ways I wouldn't have imagined at the start of book #1, but it's a great journey to follow. Seeing the way that he deals with the horrors he has to face in this book was both terrible, gruesome and fascinating... We have Teia too who is a slave. She's also in Blackguard training, and she's a pretty badass young lady with some serious fiestyness to her. Equally she has been through, and continues to go through, some horrendous stuff. I admire her, love her, and definitely wouldn't want to be her becuase her life has been rough and although it's made her who she is, I wouldn't wish it to be real. She's a stoic friend and a kind person, but she frequently gets the rough end of the stick in this and seeing her cope led me to moments of fear and despair and hope all at once.Finally (although there are a ton of other characters I could also mention) there is Karris who is a fully-fledged Blackguard and is nearing the end of her life as a drafter due to the sheer amount of power she's drafted in her life so far. She's more than above-average and she knows how to get things done and get them done well. I also have to say that when she became The White... I was like, whatttttttttt???? I think she's a great character too and I think that the way that Weeks lets his female characters be both fierce and vulnerable does a credit to them in making them more real, just as the male ones are.Some others to mention; Ironfist & Tremblefist - both fabulous Blackguard leaders and brothers and also working for The Broken Eye... whattttt again?!?, Craxus - a valuable leader and friend to Kip, Liv - an annoying, yet very powerful drafter who is on the other side right now.... Grr, I wish she wouldn't be and would see sense!, Andros Gyle - Kip's grandfather and Gavin's Father and a nasty, manipulative creep to all!There are some excellent scenes within this and some fabulous moments of horror, disgust, intrigue, mystery, marvel, magic, suspense, and so much more. I definitely would recommend the audiobook as I think it enhanced my experience, and equally I would say that the book is paced super well. Never did I feel bored or annoyed, but always I was interested in where it would go next and my goodness there were some twists and turns!!I am hugely excited to learn what happens next, and I will, of course, be getting book #4 asap after it comes out! Highly recommend this series! 5*s :)