The Broken Eye is the third book in the Lightbringer series and the best so far by my standards. Brent Weeks has toned down the pace slightly in this installment. There is still plenty of action and excitement. But this seemed to be set up as more of a chess match, or even better, like a game of Nine Kings if you are familiar with this series. I said in my review of the previous book that I wasn't big on books with a lot of politics. The politics in this series just seems to appeal to me though. Maybe it's because I'm getting older and my reading tastes are changing. Who cares as long as I enjoy the story right? I say this because the politics really ramp up in this book. Add in the secret societies, espionage, hidden agendas and you have a mixture that makes for one hell of a read."As a wolf hungers for meat so a man lusts for power. It us unwise to get between either one and his prize. This is not condemnation but a fact. And only a fool allows herself to become the prize."One of the main themes of the story so far was kind of put on the back burner here. Which I am completely fine with. If the next two books bring the story together like I think they will then it will be well worth it. Following script with the two previous books, the ending of The Broken Eye left a few of our characters futures up in the air. Also, I was a little caught off guard by a couple of character revelations as well. Say what you want about Brent Week's books, but he knows how to write a damn good conclusion to each installment so far. "Power is any action that results in consequences. But real power is action that results in the intended consequences. Real power is impossible if not guided by wisdom."Each book in this series continues to be better than the one before. I usually find one weak link in a series of this size, but so far so good. Also, the conversations I've had regarding this series have me very excited for the final two volumes. But expectations can be a curse. I only hope mine will be exceeded and I can wander around aimlessly for days trying to find a new series to read. Because this one was that damn good. Oh, the life of a reader. Isn't it wonderful!!!Actual Rating: 5 stars *****