Another fun read with likeable characters, interesting plot and a really unique and well-developed world. This one wasn't quite as good as the last one (mostly due to the fact that the plot meandered a bit in comparison) but it was still really enjoyable and I'm really excited for the final installment. Gavin's sections in this one were probably the weak-link. The "hero suffering in captivity" plot-line is one that I often find to be pretty dull and it took up pretty much all of Gavin's arc in this one. The upsides were some cool backstory in his flashbacks, his dealings with Eiren Malargos (which were incidentally some of the best written scenes in the entire book. Eirene was a great secondary character who was convincingly written as a good woman who was pushed to some extreme and immoral actions by circumstance and Gavin's quick-witted plotting was a really cool way to show that he could still be formidable even stripped of his magic) and a dramatic fall from grace arc after Gavin seemed like such a Gary Stu back in book 1.Kip continued his character development and his was probably my favourite arc in this book. Kip found himself in the middle of dramatic schemes and plots while trying to uncover some intriguing mysteries and still continuing his character development and trying to reconcile his various duties into a place for himself in the world. As Kip has become less of a pussy throughout the series he's become more and more likeable and I'm really interested to see how he ends the series. Karris also had a really strong arc. After disliking her in the first book (because she seemed to be a pretty lazy example of the "action girl" trope) and being largely indifferent to her in the second she underwent some really well-done character development in this one. Her struggles to control her emotions were nicely done and I was a huge fan of her scenes with Kip and the White (who incidentally joined Andross as being an absolutely incredible secondary character in this one and who in hindsight I realize had been pretty swag every time she appeared previously as well). I wasn't a big fan of Teia in this one as she became something of a Mary Stu. In addition to being a girl who is able to compete with highly trained, grown-ass men in unarmed combat she also apparently has super speshul magical powers that virtually no one else has and that allow her to kill pretty much anyone without leaving any trace (incidentally while I really liked him in his previous appearance I quickly started to dislike Murder Sharpe in this one for much the same reason I dislike Teia. Of course I'm not a fan of the "secret society" trope in general (except for the Stonecutters episode of the Simpsons, which was awesome))(Oh shit double brackets, it's happening!!). I did however enjoy some of the backstory and lore that came up in Teia's sections as well as the mystery and cloak and dagger intrigue.I also think this book suffered a bit from the lack of screen time of the Colored Prince. In the last book his constant presence (albeit through the POV of annoying Liv, who fortunately had her screen-time slashed and was far less annoying when she did appear) provided a really cool sense of danger as it built him up to be a worthy antagonist to the good guys and hyping up their inevitable collision. This one in comparison seemed to lose some of that focus and intensity. I really appreciated in the last book how Weeks went out of his way to show the struggles the Color Prince encountered and the qualities (intelligence, charisma, ability to make persuasive arguments, strong grasp of diplomacy and military strategy) he showed to overcome them as it did a really cool job of building him up as a dangerous and worthy adversary. Too many books just hand-wave the bad-guys into lucky positions while the heroes toil away (this also appeared in this book to some extent with the annoying Zymun).Overall this was a really enjoyable read with a strong cast of likeable characters, a cool magic system an intriguing plot and a unique world and I'm really psyched for the finale.