A farewell letter to my Kvothe. WOW. Oh, wow. It just dawned on me that Kvothe and I won’t be meeting again for another, what, 10 to 15 years? Sounds about right. The inevitable long await is so disheartening and the fury's already starting to creep in.Thus, Kvothe, this's my farewell letter to you.Dearest favourite douche in fantasy,Let's get real, here, you rub people the wrong way (not me. Never me). But people do talk and the consensus is that you’re arrogant, kind of an ass, a little bit of hubristic (okay, a lot), you know it’s true and also a bit of a douchebag and extremely reckless (more often than not, unnecessarily and only to prove a point) and for someone so brilliant, sometimes it's like you can’t even tell the difference between being fearless to just being plain stupid but… LISTEN! I speak only of what I see so don't be disheartened because, you’re also generous, charming and a gentleman at heart. In my eyes, you could do no wrong.The good:Your kind heart, inner-child curiosity and relentless work ethics & hard-core survival instincts (my personal favourite) are unparalleled, and if I were to be stranded on a deserted island, it’d, without a doubt, be with you (because, apparently, we get to choose who we get stranded with) therefore I’ve chosen to forgive all of your other shortcomings as your strengths far outweigh your flaws.And that absolute badass move you pulled toward the end of the book?… well, let's just say that that move put you right back up onto my top five male characters in fantasy. You took me by surprise and that's why I love you. These two books have given me a lot of first experiences. You were the first character that I ever truly loved, The Name of the Wind was the first fantasy book that utterly engrossed and enthralled me the whole way through, made me forget the world around me, and a personal favourite of mine, gave me the first ever chapter (‘Jackass, Jackass.’) that became my favourite until very recently. It was knocked off the top spot by "Mo' divinity, mo' problems" from, Fool’s Gold… I mean, come on, need I say more? And last but certainly not least, what's in a name? PLENTY because The Wise Man's Fear still remains my favourite book title to date. Your creator really knows how to pick 'em. The bad: I would've absolutely given you the full 5 stars but I have some issues that have yet to be resolved. For starters, what're you still doing at the university!? it's been two tomes with over a thousand pages long and somehow, you're still lurking around that damned place! I loved the whole university aspect in the first book but I expected you to move on to different adventures. And second, most of what you did here was travel from place to place, doing one thing after another, then repeating the cycle again. The first book set up so much tension and mystery that I thought I'd finally get some answers here but, alas, I did not. And I was willing to forgive that, after all, there's still the finale to consider but still, give a girl somethin'!And though I enjoyed the ride, it was lacking in the one thing I appreciate more than anything in books, suspense and dramatic tension. I NEED TENSION, Kvothe! I need it like I need air (maybe not to that extent but, trying to make a point, here). I need to be at the edge of my seat reading one chapter after another that gets my pulse racing. Don't judge me but I live for narratives filled with destruction, chaos and turmoil, which I did not get here. The (very) ugly:In regards to she who shall not be named… fuck it, DENNA! Listen to me and listen carefully - THAT BITCH WILL DRAG YOU DOWN! You’re better than that, Kvothe! I hope the next time I see you, you’re all cured of the Denna disease that you just can't seem to shake off because that thorn on my (soon to be your) side only lives to torture me (you) and I don’t care for it one bit.FarewellThanks to your maker who refuses to budge in, and who excels at torturing his (your) fans, we won’t be seeing each other for a good while, not even sure if it will happen in my lifetime but don’t blame me. So, this is where we part ways but I’ll remain loyal until… well, let's just wait and see.I’ll eagerly await your return, dearest Kvothe. If I'm alive by then, that is.Your ever loving loyalist,Nani****************************************Had to wait months for this baby 'cause I needed my year to start with a bang. And what better way to start it off than with Kvothe!😍It's time it's time it's time!💃P.S. Exercising patience is a painful thing and... never again.