a review of three parts (revisited)



dawn was coming. the keys of a laptop lay in stillness to continue a review, and it was a review of three parts.the most obvious part was a vast, echoing question made by answers that were lacking. if there had been more pages, words would have wrapped and scattered across the sheets of paper beneath anxious hands. ideas would have formed and floated and chased the question across the mind like a wisp of summer breeze. if there had been more to kvothes story, he would have played and traversed across the four corners of civilisation, brushing the question away like an unraveling, half-forgotten dream. if there had been a third book… but no, of course there was no third book. in fact, there were none of these things, and so the review remained. across the internet, the noise of distant conclusions and theories were posted across forums. but these ideas were slender as a thread, with one counterpoint breaking them, leaving only mumbling posters and unsatisfied thinkers. but those thoughts faded too, leaving nothing but a second part of the review, waiting like an endless indrawn breath.the third part was not an easy thing to notice. if you read long enough you might begin to feel it in the warmth that floods your heart as you fall in love with a story. it was in the heavy words that lay across pages reluctantly turned because the end was coming all too quickly. and it was in the hands of the girl who sat on her bed, enchanted, typing the first thoughts and feelings that came to her during the night.the girl had true brown hair, brown as a mouse. her eyes were bright and attentive, and she typed with the sure direction of one who has read and reviewed many books over time. the laptop was hers, just as the third part was hers. this was appropriate, as it was the greatest part of the three, holding the others inside itself. it was deep and wide as autumns ending. it was heavy as a great river-smooth stone. it was the patient, cut-flower sound of a girl forever awaiting the continuation of a story.thanks for introducing me to kvothe, john, even though you dont like him. :P↠ 5 stars