I enjoyed the first book, but did not feel the same way about this one. Fantasy books are meant to be the unbelievable, this much is certain, and the heroes that take the starring role are meant to be people of great intrigue and who can accomplish completely incredible feats, but it feels that it's pushed a bit too far in this book.Kvothe not only is an amazing arcanist, a prodigy with a memory so perfect that he can call up how people smelled on a single day years ago, but he's a musician, and you're meant to believe he's the greatest musician in all the land based on some of the reviews that he receives, as well as how he can compose a song about himself in mere minutes which goes on to spread through the land, being forever etched in everyone's memory. So you have a character that is both an extraordinary magician (probably the most powerful one 'the University' has seen in years) and an extraordinary musician, surpassing people in their mid 20s when he's only 16, how do you make him even better than everyone else?(contains spoilers below)How do you make someone who is already perfect aside from his shitty personality better than everyone else? Well, you could send him off on a throwaway adventure with a band of highly experienced mercenaries and woodsmen and have him be the leader and the one who saves them from certain destruction, but only after having multiple chapters where he and the band do nothing in the forest aside from Tai-Chi and tell stories that don't matter with the exception of one which gets thrown into the Fae mythos for incredibly lame reasons why wars begin.This book doesn't feel natural whatsoever. Everything feels like a plot device just designed to string together a few random ideas that are incredibly cliched. Most of what occurs within the book just seems like an event meant to shout to you "Look how awesome Kvothe is!" Rothfuss attempts to offset the chapters where he points out how amazing Kvothe is at everything by flashing forward to the future where he's a lonely innkeeper who is perpetually sad and can't use sympathy to light a man on fire, and gets beaten up by a couple lowly soldiers... contradictory to when he killed a bunch of scrael singlehandedly. Following his throwaway adventure in the woods attacking bandits (where one of the Chandrian is randomly thrown into the action to just show that it had slight relevance), Kvothe goes off with Tempi, a member of the Adem, a super secretive sect of mercenaries who are not accepting of outsiders at all. The reason he's going off with Tempi? Because he was instructed in some of the ways of the Adem Tai-Chi, even though the way the story unfolds you'd be led to believe no outsider has ever learned them. How was Kvothe so fortunate (unfortunate?) to be taught to fight by one of the Adem? He simply asked. And as though Rothfuss realizes that after he reveals how far-fetched it would be even in his own world, which exists solely to make Kvothe look good, for Kvothe to be taught this, he follows up the question of "Will you teach me the ways of the sword?" with an obligatory "Had I known more of the Adem, I never would have asked this..." It's lazy.I'm not asking to be reading a book that could easily transpire in reality, it is a fantasy novel, and I do realize this, but the way the plot unfolds leaves a lot to be desired, after each important (or throwaway in the case of this book) plot point occurs, instantly Kvothe is on his next adventure, and this isn't something I have a problem with because oftentimes it will make the book more enjoyable to read, but he could at least use some brainpower to try and make it all fit together. Immediately following the fight with the mercenaries, he goes into the Fae, immediately following that, he goes to the Adem, immediately following that he rescues two young girls from rapists disguised as troupers... lame plot point after lame plot point in quick sequence, without any breathing room, which makes little sense considering how much of the start of the book is filled with the mundane sequence of "Look for Denna. Study. Drink with friends. Sing. Repeat process." Chapters repeat themselves so often that the few ones of import stick out like a sore thumb, and those either take too long (the Fae) or end too quickly (the Mercenary fight after the incredibly long buildup).The worst part of the book, by far, is the Felurian arc, which consists entirely of him having sex with the most beautiful woman in the world, who is known to make men go mad simply because they're no longer in her presence when she gets tired of them and allows them to leave. What's the difference between Kvothe and the average guy? Well he convinces Felurian to let him leave, by playing her a half finished song, oh and then he leaves but after he spends "as much as a year" in the Fae, where only 3 days have passed in reality (conveniently enough, before Kvothe ran after the faerie creature, he yelled to the people he was with "meet me at the inn in 3 days!", what LUCK!). The entire time spent in the Fae is simply ridiculous, and it felt like I was reading a 40 year old male fanfiction diehard's own take at Twilight for virginal fantasy readers in their late teens. "Oh Kvothe, you're telling lies, there's no way you're a 16 year old virgin! The sex I had with you was amazing, even though I'm a faerie creature who has lived for thousands of years in an alternate world where time passes exponentially slower than the mortal world, and where the only thing I've been doing all these years, while not singing and stealing men from the mortal world, is having sex with those men until I grow bored of them, or they insane." Painful to read.After the Fae arc to me it becomes clear that Kvothe is Rothfuss' superimposed teenage self finally living the fantasy nerd's dream and living out a life of perfection in a prototypical fantasy world that he doesn't bother to develop. The world is generic, like the plot of this book, and has no real substance outside of the different words used for week (span) and random curses that get thrown in towards the middle-end of the book (Kist). This book is long for the sake of being long. On top of this, the plotline is just too pretty of a package, the story is too perfect, and although Rothfuss seemingly knows this and tries to make the future look bleak and grim with future-Kvothe implying that he's the subject of a tragedy, it doesn't do much help. Overall it feels as though Rothfuss had several ideas and rather than develop them coherently and try and make it flow like a novel should, he lazily combined them together, and it feels sloppy. It's a shame too, since I really wanted to like this book, but it leaves you wondering what the 'kist' Rothfuss was thinking when he wrote this, unless his goal was to be the male high fantasy equivalent of Twilight which would be a success on all counts.