When THE HELL is this book coming out?? The first book grabbed me by the throat and threw me down and had it's way with me and I am fast becoming impatient in having it happen a second time. ... This better not turn into another George R.R. Martin wait! Or ... or... or I shall be extremely vexed. VEXED I tell you!Update 11/10/2014We now haves this book and we reads it. Oh yes precious, we do and we loves it. It is the precious. The Wise Man's Fear is absolutely fantastic. Rothfuss has propelled himself to be my most favoritist of authors. There is simply too much good stuff going on to comment intelligibly. But one must try. In no specific order...Rothfuss Rocks because:1) He has created a world that unquestionably and easily allows the reader to suspend disbelief. There is so much detail, work and pain (yes, you can tell Rothfuss suffered for his books) that goes into explaining sympathetic magic, alchemy and artificing that the reader finds himself nodding in agreement the whole way, thinking, "well that makes perfect sense....of course of course, I can do this, give me some soft wax, a candle and someone's hair and I'll conquer the world!" You believe because Rothfuss created a world that is utterly believable and makes perfect sense.2) The book is goddamn funny! Knee-slapping so. This isn't a comedic series, but the dialogue between Kvothe and his troupe is simply amazing. I LOVED when he meets Puppet. I couldn't stop chuckling and texting my friend lines from the book. My most favorite scene was actually in the Name of the Wind when Kvothe wears a towel and storms into the tailor's shop, acting as a nobleman's son, what he calls, "a force of nature." The description is exactly how I envision such a pompous little ass would behave. “If you don’t bring me something to wear—” I stood up and shouted, “—I’ll tear this place apart! I’ll ask my father for your stones as a Midwinter gift. I’ll have his dogs mount your dead corpse. DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHO I AM?” - Simply amazing. 3) I cried at several places, again in NotW when Kvothe played for his talent pipes at the Eolian and sang The Lay of Sir Savien Traliard, singing the part of Savien while Denna sang the part of Aloine. I cried like a school girl who lost her lunch at the end, just as Kvothe did, all the while laughing at myself for being a reader, played by Rothfuss who masterfully controlled my emotions. Such a wonderful scene. But damn if Denna isn't such a flighty minx. Just when I was beginning to like her....UGH!!