“It’s not charity,” I snap. “He caresabout me—and I care about him!”Warner nods, unimpressed. “You should get a dog, love. I hear they share much the same qualities.”Já ani nějak nevím, co říct! Tohle bylo... WOW.Adama pořád nesnáším - proč neumřel?Warner je pořád moje zlatíčko ♥Juliette mi o trochu víc přirostla k srdci než v předchozích dílech. Ani si už neškrtala myšlenky! (To mi došlo až teď) :)U žádného dílu jsem se nenasmála tolik jako u tohohle.“There are three things you should know about me, love.” He steps forward. “The first,” he says, “isthat I hate my father more than you might ever be capable of understanding.” He clears his throat.“Second, is that I am an unapologetically selfish person, who, in almost every situation, makesdecisions based entirely on self-interest. And third.” A pause as he looks down. Laughs a little. “Inever had any intention of using you as a weapon.” “Don’t touch me!” I jerk away, glaring, clutching the foot of his bed like it might be a weapon. “Ishould shoot you all over again for doing that to me! I should—I should—”“What?” He laughs. “You’re going to throw another pillow at me?”“You don’t know me,” I mumble, wiping away tears. “You think you know me just because you’veread my journal—you stupid, prying, privacy-stealing asshole—”“Oh, right—about that—” He smiles, one quick hand plucking the journal out of my pocket as hemoves toward the door. “I’m afraid I wasn’t finished reading this.”And for the first time in my life, willing to admitthat I’m angry.It’s liberating.“You allow the world to think you’re a heartless murderer,” I tell him. “And you’re not.”He laughs, once; his eyebrows lift in surprise. “No,” he says. “I’m afraid I’m just the regular kind ofmurderer.”“Hey, um, I’m sorry to bother you, but I’m looking for a friend of mine,” he says. “Have you seen her?She’s a tiny little thing, cries a lot, spends too much time with her feelings—”“Shut up, Kenji.”“Oh wait!” he says. “It is you.”“I never thought you were an idiot,” I say, surprised. “I thought you were crazy,” I tell him, “but notan idiot.” I hesitate. “I actually think you’re brilliant,” I confess. “I wish I could think like you.” I lookaway and look back at him too quickly, feeling a lot like I need to learn to keep my mouth shut.Every vertebra, every knuckle, both kneecaps, both hips. I am a pile of bones on the floor and no oneknows it but me. I am a broken skeleton with a beating heart.“This is so unbearably inconvenient,” he says. “I was prepared to hate him for the rest of my life.”“I want one.” I’m staring at the gun wall in the training room. “Which one is the best one?”...“You don’t need a gun,” Warner says to me, surprised. “You can certainly have one, but I don’t thinkyou need one.”“I want two.”“Who’s Bruce Lee?”“Who’s Bruce Lee?” Kenji asks, horrified. “Oh my God. We can’t even be friends anymore.”“Why? Was he a friend of yours?”It’s only then that I remember I still have no idea how to drive.It’s probably a good thing I’m driving a tank.I loved making you mad,” he says to me, his eyes wicked. “I love makingyou mad.”“Don’t be sorry, either,” he says. “God, the only reason I’m not going to kill Kent for this is because I know it would only upset you more.”Warner laughs a sharp, strange laugh. He looks almost relieved. “Do you have any otherstipulations?”“Not really.”“You don’t want to fix me, then? You don’t have a long list of things I need to work on?”“No.” I stare out the window. The view is so bleak. So cold. Covered in ice and snow. “There’snothing wrong with you that isn’t already wrong with me,” I say quietly. “And if I were smart I’d firstfigure out how to fix myself.”