"It's like a soap opera." Ian nods. "But with worse acting."I couldn't have said it any better. That's what this book actually is.It's been a while since I read a dystopian book. I read the first 2 back in 2015 and while I wasn't hard to please then, I still didn't like them. The writing style annoyed me, the characters irritated me, and the books bored me. Not much has changed since. So this is the final book in the trilogy (yeah yeah, I know we have extra books now but it's something recent). Normally, you expect the last book to be action packed with and an actual resolution. This one was neither. It took Juliette 350 pages to decide if she wants Warner or Adam. Don't get me wrong, she knew she didn't want Adam but, but does she truly love Warner?I'm not sure if this a bad or a good thing but the characters we met in the first 2 books are not the same. ➺Juliette is not the same girl, she's more confident and she thinks she's the one who should lead the rebellion and not anyone else.➺ Warner is the angel now. All his actions are lamely excused. It was all to make her better *snorts*➺ Adam is suddenly the jealous obsessed boyfriend. The used to be nice is now suddenly awful. How else can Juliette choose between the boys? One of them should be obviously bad.➺ Kenji, the only decent character, is now kissing "J"'s ass. A 17 yo barely educated suddenly wants to lead a nation. A teenager who has 0 experience in politics or how governments work. She can't even decide who she really loves, how is she supposed to make judgments affecting the whole nation? I'm sure her country will prosper. After the death of all their peers, she blames them for not wanting to fight back anymore. Yeah, right. Suddenly she's the superhero. She only needs a cape now.The author was obviously trying to make us love Warner by justifying his actions "because he wanted to help her". All he ever did, was for her benefit. What about torturing Adam? We never get an excuse for this behavior. You know why? Because there is none. When Juliette is wary of him, he's shocked. How can she act like this? After all, he did everything for her. He was trying to help. No, he didn't lock her for over 200 days and isolated her from any human contact (you know pervert soldiers), no he didn't make her go through hellish experiences (stimulation, of course), and he didn't look like an obsessed psycho (whom I very much preferred). He's just a misunderstood person who doesn't give a shit what others think about him, oh poor boy. He tells her sweet things thinking what he's doing is right which is not. Then there’s Adam is acting all crazy and calling Juliette and Warner for their shit so he's the bad guy (he overreacted too much). I've been across many love-triangles but this one is surely one of the worst because the author is forcing us to love a used to be psycho character by making him a martyr of his own society (daddy used to beat him) and the one who is supposed to be a saint became an asshole. No logic here. I didn't even like Adam but here am I, defending him. Some authors subtly manipulate their readers looking at you SJM but for it to be done so obviously done and so sudden? Come on!Kenji my sweet funny boy is NOT funny anymore and being a loyal puppet to Juliette, the understanding best friend. Oh, please *eye roll* The other minor characters Ian, Sarah, James, etc... were better than the MCs. Too bad they didn't get much attention. This book is pure drama and the action part (it can be summed up in 20 pages out of 400) was too easy. Suddenly Juliette is so strong and Warner too. Perfect, right? They're the ultimate couple, after all. They can now keep everything under control. This trilogy could've been summed up in 1 book without all this angst bullshit. I read 400 pages in less than 4 hours which is a record for me but not so much because I was skipping sometimes paragraphs while understanding everything BECAUSE NOTHING WAS GOING ON. I did not fall under Warner's charms nor admired Juliette's growth. The book is a romance set in a very simple dystopian world. Then she comes up with a ridiculous plan to save the day and of course, it works.Many things in this book made me cringe:- Warner's sweet talk.- Kenji's obsession with Juliette- WARNER USING THE WORD LOVE. Oh, the cringe. It was used over 50 times... This made cringe so hard that I was trying to find any possible way to avoid reading the sentences in which he says love.While the list of my the eye roll moments is infinite, here are some worth mentioning:- Juliette's power enlightening moments.- Warner justifying badly his actions.- Juliette-trying-to-be-badass moments.- the romance.-The overly dramatic writing style.The ending was so abrupt, so fast, so illogical. I can see why she's making a sequel but isn't including an epilogue better? Three more books, seriously? I bet they'll be mostly romance. Like Ignite me. A theme like this one was barely handled 3 books. I can't imagine how much adding 3 will make it drag.I honestly had no interest in reading this book but my friend had the paperback and I don't read printed copies so often... Plus I only have one book left which is not much, I don't like to leave series unfinished when I can read it all. I had -93501230713092 expectations and I knew I'll hate this book, it did help honestly. For an instance, I was considering giving it 2 stars but then again, that's mostly the physical book playing charms on me (I find it harder to give them a low rating than ebooks). I am not sure I will read the new book when it comes out, we'll see. However, I know I won't be reading any of Mafi's other work.