"I figured something out. You can't hold on to hate forever. It won't do a thing to the person you hate, but it'll poison you, sure enough." I love this quote! Who would have thought T.J. could be so wise?! And this is just the beginning! For once we actually get to know a little bit of his background story and I was a happy camper to finally find out more about him. About T.J., Halfblood and about Mallory, that is. In this third and last book they all got a moment to shine and I’m still intrigued by some of the revelations that were dropped so nonchalantly, especially about Mallory!! *lol*Well anyway there was a short cameo of Percy and Annabeth too and even though I still haven’t read all the "Percy Jackson" books I enjoyed it immensely. XD I didn’t feel spoiled so that definitely shouldn’t keep you from reading the book. Besides their interactions were really nice and I would have loved to see more of them!! =) "Huh." Annabeth shook her head. "All these years sneaking around, and we could've just been ourselves?""You should always do that." Alex strolled alongside, back in human form, though he still had a few flamingo feathers stuck in his hair. "And you have to flaunt the weird, my friends."And did I already tell you how much I love Alex Fierro?! Yes? Well, I’m going to tell you about her/him anyway! *lol* I’m still besotted with Alex Fierro and I doubt that this is going to change anytime soon. As it seems I’m not the only one who loves her/him though. ;-P Alone the way Magnus thinks about Alex is reason enough to expect an awesome ship to sail. But, hold your horses! Before you see them running off into the sunset together Alex needs to decide if she/he really wants to be with Magnus first. Haha! Yeah, Alex is a hard nut to crack. *lol* Poor Magnus! >_<”Also, I kept thinking about Alex Fierro. You know, maybe just a little. Alex was a force of nature, like the snow thunder. She struck when she felt like it, depending on temperature differentials and storm patterns I couldn’t possibly predict. She shook my foundations in a way that was powerful but also weirdly soft and constrained, veiled in blizzard. I couldn’t assign any motives to her. She just did what she wanted. At least, that’s how it felt to me.”Still, despite all his confusion he never falters to do what’s right and necessary. Mainly, to stop Ragnarok and to get Loki back in his chains. Something that isn’t all too easy if there are so many other problems along their way. Magnus wouldn’t be the son of Frey if he wouldn’t be able to deal with all of them though. *lol* I can’t even put into words how precious he is and I love my clumsy summer boy so much that it hurts! XD Seriously he is so kind-hearted I can’t even! <333”I had an overwhelming desire to write a letter for Hearth and Blitz: Dear Cosmic Forces, Please excuse my friends from their deadly fate. They are not feeling well today. At the very least, I wanted to outfit them with safety helmets, life jackets and reflective decals before sending them off.”I love how much he cares about his friends and even though he’s probably one of the most clumsy heroes I ever met (Well, I think Simon Snow is still worse. *lol*) he always manages to succeed somehow. XD Plus his love for chocolate! Haha! You just gotta adore him for loving his chocolate so much! But that moment where all his glorious clumsiness got a chance to shine?! EPIC! Just epic! *lol* Gosh I laughed so hard! Poor Magnus though! Haha! To all of you who already read the book: I’m talking about Magnus accidentally eating the grease from Alderman’s heart! Which was so EWWW, but also so damn funny I couldn’t help but laugh out loud! XD Seriously, how can you even be so damn clumsy?! *lol*”The most gruesome thing we discovered was in Uncle Randolph’s refrigerator, where expired yogurt, sour milk and mouldy carrots were evolving into a pre-industrial society. Randolph hadn’t even left me any chocolate in the pantry, the old villain.”I think Magnus might have killed me a few times over the course of this book and if I’m entirely honest Alex might have killed me even more often than him. <333 Alex Fierro… *sighs dreamily*”I wasn’t going to die without doing that,” she said.OH. MY. GODS!!! That scene was awesome! XD And can we once again appreciate what a precious bean Magnus Chase truly is!? He takes every situation in stride and is always there for his friends. He would rather sacrifice himself instead of causing other people harm, he emits summery warmth and he has absolutely no prejudices!!! <333”I’ll be honest. A small part of my brain thought, Alex is male right now. I have just been kissed by a dude. How do I feel about that?The rest of my brain answered: I have just been kissed by Alex Fierro. I am absolutely great with that.”I wanted to kiss him for that realisation alone! <3 I’m so sad this series is over now and I really would have wished for more! I could have easily read 10 more books about Magnus and his friends and it still wouldn’t be enough. *lol* Please Uncle Rick, could you at least grace us with a cameo in other series? That would be awesome! =)And I don’t think I actually have to say this after my review but I’ll say it anyway:I loved Uncle Rick’s Magnus Chase series and I’ll forever crave for more! <333