I loved Twilight. Fuck all y'all haters. I've been salivating to read this ever since that partial first draft of the original Midnight Sun got leaked years ago. But after reading this? I wish Stephenie Meyer had just pulled on her big girl panties and finished it back then. This Edward was too breathy and overdramatic. He came across as one of those bitches who would willingly saw his penis off as an apology for scaring you with his boner.Getthefuckoutofhere.The first few chapters were the hardest, because Edward sounded like such a poncy twat that I really didn't know if I wanted to keep listening to his inner monologue. He was so condescending and obnoxious, it just felt like his thoughts were on a repetitive loop. I am an ageless vampyre full of ennui. Humans are disgusting creatures that I am loathe to spend time with. And yet, I'm forever sitting in this high school biology class...That schtick that got old. Fast.I'll admit that as the story went on, he really did become a lot more tolerable.Gotta be honest though, he was not as charming as I remembered. One (petty) reason is most likely because I imagined this super hot guy when I read the book a million years ago. I can't remember what that dream man looked like now, however, because I have an image of Pattinson stuck in my head. This is not the image I wanted. The guy who played Edward is one of those rare people who has two faces. I'll look at him from one angle and think, Hey! He's not half bad!Then he tilts his head a bit to the left? Jesus Christ! It's a monster! That's a skill an actor can use right there.Anyway. The whole book was probably a bit marred by those terrible movies and the actors who played the roles. What did they do to make them look that way - paint them with chalk each day on the set? They were supposed to be pale and attractive, not look like they'd been dipped in white-out. And can someone please explain why half the time they look like they're wearing cheap wigs!?  Ugh.I can't know for sure how much my loathing for those movies did to taint my viewpoint, but I do know that I preferred the characters that I'd imagined a long time ago more than what I kept seeing this time around.Alright. I get it. This is supposed to be a representation of how you feel in the throes of your first love. But I honestly don't remember being this fucking dramatic. Maybe I was. I'm willing to admit that I may have forgotten what it was like to think of a man as the all-encompassing center of my universe. Yeah, yeah. I love my husband...but not like this. This is just a lot of teenage nonsense. They're both virgins who have never been in love (or even dated anyone) beforehand. You remember what that was like, right?Yeah. Me neither. And that's ok. It's part of what's so fun about occasionally dipping my toes back into the Young Adult genre. You're giving yourself permission to forget reality and pretend that breathy sighs, chaste kisses, and holding hands are what makes the world go round. You can believe that your love for this perfect boy will make up for the fact that his family are all raging lunatics that you'll be tethered to till the end of time. <--it's all good. At any rate, I finished this for nostalgia's sake. But I can't say that it recaptured any of that original magic I felt when I first read the books. But I'm a glutton for punishment, so if she makes a New Moon version from Ed's point of view?Yeah. I'll read that bitch. <--not even ashamed!