update: found this piece of bloody perfection:(sorry to all of you who have seen this review a million times already from when the feeds froze. i couldn't help myself.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1.5/5)Like many things in life, my decision to read this book can be summed up in a couple of Beatles lyrics:'Cause I told you once before, "goodbye"But I came back againSure, I started reading this book because of a buddy read (yes, we're all crazy and extremely masochistic, except for mei, who got dragged into this mess by the rest of us), but the decision to finish it? Entirely mine. And, well...To say that I regret reading this book would be the understatement of the century, only second to "I regret reading Twilight". Honestly, I wish my mind could process that it's okay to dnf books because then maybe I'd at least have a brain. Please stick around for the funeral of my last braincell, seeing as to how all of you have already been invited.Live footage taken of me in my true demonic form reading this book, losing whatever soul faith in humanity presence I had left:Midnight Sun. The fifth book in the Twilight series. As if the first four weren't enough. Where do I even begin reviewing this dumpster fire of a book?You probably already know what this review is going to be about/like. Am I still going to bother with a disclaimer? Yes. Seriously, though. Don't read this review if you're going to get triggered that I hate it, because I do. Unapologetically and with relish. And I don't see that changing any time soon.I suppose it's best to start off with how long this book is. You might be surprised to find that it's longer than Twilight. You might even be tempted to read this book, just to see what was added. Well, let me tell you: nothing. (I actually don't know for sure because I remember exactly nothing about what happened in Twilight - they say your brain has a way of forgetting traumatic experiences sometimes - but it certainly seems that way.) This book could have been 400 pages less and still feel like a chore to read, but at least then it wouldn't be ungodly so. Personally, I was only able to tolerate a hundred pages or so a day, and even that was painful. Basically, I'mI have to admit, based on what I remember, this book seems to be better written than Twilight was. That isn't saying much, I know, but the only thing that could've made this experience worse would be reading almost 700 pages of vampire yearning and angst... written like it was fanfiction.Apart from its unholy length, this book was incredibly irritating. For all of you out there who are thinking "Hmm, maybe since it's Edward's thoughts, I won't have to suffer through this book," think again. I was thinking that since this book is from Edward's perspective, I might actually not hate this book. But alas. The entirety of this book is, in no particular order: 1. Edward pining for Bella. It's ridiculous how much of this book is filled solely with Edward's moody musings, constantly thinking about Bella, and how, "boohoo, my life's so sad," because he can't be with Bella. For a hundred-some year old immortal being, Edward got caught up very quickly in all the high school drama, which is ironic, considering that it's mentioned in the book somewhere. All of this, of course, isn't to forget the number of times he thought, "gee, I sure wish I was a human right now!", and then proceeded to compare his skin to marble and call his fingers unnatural. 2. Edward's obsession with Bella. As previously stated, all Edward thinks about is Bella, but his obsession nearly makes Slendy look sane tame. Seriously. Everyone is always talking about how Edward watches Bella when she's asleep and how creepy that is (I know I have), but it's more than just that. Once he's got her in his unnaturally alabastor clutches, he refuses to let her be with anyone else. You know how he can read thoughts, but not Bella's? Well, the only logical course of action is to the read the thoughts of those around her, and watch her all day. Definitely not creepy, right? 3. Edward telling Bella that she shouldn't be with him, and going after her. Honestly, this is the most wack part of the entire freaking book, which is saying a very big something. Edward acts more contrary than your average YA protagonist battling their inner demons. One second he's swooning all over her, and the next, he's snarling at her. There's a lot of random randomness and unnecessary drama, made more dramatic by the fact that Bella is an idiot absolutely perfect, and worries more about Edward than her own wellness, and Edward randomly bossing Bella around. 4. Bella is completely brainless. This is carrying on from the last point, and I'm pretty sure that I had an update about there being a line in the book proving my point, but this needs to be said regardless: Bella is an idiot. No matter how many times Edward tries to warn her, she refuses to listen to reason and totally attaches herself to him. No matter how many apparent red flags there are, she refuses to run. It's incredibly frustrating to read, and makes you wonder how many girls/young women explain away harmful relationships because their only standards are this series.Here are some more facts that need to be stated because I said so: 5. Bella is a Mary Sue. Dammit Edward, enough with how pErFeCt and gOoDy TwO-sHoEs Bella is, we get the point! 6. There are more descriptions of brown eyes in this book than humanity will ever need. For real. I have brown eyes and was incredibly weirded out by this. 7. Twilight-Harry Potter crossover memes are outrageously hilarious. Seriously. They're probably half the reason I managed to survive this. That, and sheer masochism. 8. I always have been Team Alice. I don't know if I mentioned this, but Bella x Alice seems waayyy better than Bella x Edward. At least, to me it does. 9. The overusage of the Hades-and-Persephone analogy. Just about every ten pages after they get together, Edward goes on a guilt-trip about what a horrible and evil monster he is, going on to compare Bella to sugar, spice, and everything nice, and how he's going to corrupt her, etc etc. Like, seriously, no more. As if the cover didn't make this obvious enough, Edward had to tell us every five seconds. This complaint, however, doesn't hold a candle to my biggest problem with reading this book, which was that 10. I lost my last braincell reading this.Thank you all for coming out today, and reading through all the garbage that precedes this. (Or maybe you just scrolled to the bottom to attend this funeral. I wouldn't judge you if you did). On this day, we honor my last braincell, taken far too early like the rest of its brethren, with an offering. Specifically, a gif:Ah, fork, not that one!Ahh, there we go.Our hopes are that with this hecking adorable gif, you may go on to live a peaceful life, free from the tortures of sparkly vampires and their horniness drama. Go on, braincell, and be free. Know that your sacrifice was not made in vain.And to all of you who came, and to all of you who supported this braincell on its journey thus far: thank you, from the bottom of my nonexistent soul. Also know that the journey is not yet over. There are still more cursed books to read and review rant about. You have my everlong thanks, and as a token of my appreciation, here. You can have a gif, too:~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1.5-i'm-petty-so-this-book-will-have-the-honor-of-being-the-first-book-to-make-it-to-both-of-my-hate-shelves stars)rtc!~~~~~~~~~~~~~just when you thought things couldn't get crazier...me and the gang have the most chaotic buddy read possible!Reviews (most likely filled with tortured screaming) coming soon if we ever manage to finish the book!