I have never in my 23 years of life been more excited to read a book and I am not ashamed! I loved reading this, but I didn't necessarily love this book. Bear with me, I will explain!This book isn't perfect, and I didn't expect it to be. It has many of the major criticized flaws of Twilight, in terms of instalove and questionable romance.  It is a Twilight novel after all, and if you're one of those people that absolutely hate sparkly vampires and all that comes with them, this is NOT the book for you. This book was written for the Twihards. It was written for everyone that had been eagerly awaiting this installment for over a decade. For those of us who recognize Twilight's flaws, but love it nonetheless. So, if you know that you're going to hate it, don't read it for the lolz, and don't ruin it for those of us who care about it. Please. That's all I ask.That said, Midnight Sun is 'technically' better than Twilight. Meyer's prose has grown and greatly improved in the past 15 years since Twilight first came out. Many of us have laughed at infamous Twilight lines such as: “Aro laughed. "Ha ha ha," he giggled.”(Which is a misquote, by the way. It's actually: “Aro started to laugh. “Ha ha ha,” he chuckled.” In New Moon, chapter 21. Look it up!)Thankfully, we've grown past that mess in Midnight Sun. The writing was, surprisingly, actually one of my favorite parts of this book.When it comes to plot, this is literally the same as Twilight. Don't go expecting a new story because you won't get one. What you will get is a new version of it with far more detail and development than we see in the original novel. Meyer took the opportunity in this book to expand and develop a lot of things that were left vague before, and I really appreciate that. The vampire world seems bigger here, the characters seem like they could possibly, with some effort, be real people!Character-wise, I really liked this book and consider it a good contribution to the Twilight Saga. I am extremely biased as I have always been #TeamEdward, but I genuinely enjoyed the look into Edward's thoughts. He is still a vampire stalker, but he is also shockingly self-aware and not nearly as perfect as Bella thinks. Seeing him through Bella's POV made Edward seem distant and otherworldly and entirely without flaw. Seeing his own mind shows he's a flawed, complex mess of a person. It makes him a bit more human than before.Shockingly, the biggest surprise for me in this book was Bella herself, as she too appears more human in this book than in Twilight. Don't get me wrong, Bella is still the most special of all special snowflakes, but through Edward's eyes, you see she actually has a personality. There are conversations between the two characters that are only alluded to and skipped over in Twilight, which were fully fleshed out in this book. Perhaps it's because, in Twilight, Bella was too infatuated with Edward to pay attention to small, trivial conversations. In Midnight Sun, Edward is so infatuated with Bella that he considers all those trivial conversations vital to her character. Either way, Bella's personality, her likes, and dislikes, get explored here in a way that wasn't in the original novel. It makes her less bland.All the other characters are also shown in greater depth in this book, mostly, the Cullen clan. This is because Edward can read their minds and therefore see their true selves and hidden motives, while Bella's POV was blinded by their beauty and perceived perfection. Emmett was my favorite because he was the only one aware of the fact that Edward was clearly crazy.I will say this though, it sucks that all the human characters lowkey suck. I mean, they sucked in Twilight too, we just didn't realize how much. All of Bella's "friends" are lying, jealous, horrible people and it sucks that Meyer chose to portray them like that for the sake of making Bella appear even more special. Even Rosalie, who has a genuinely horrifying, tragic backstory of being used and abused and left for dead, is reduced to a horrible, jealous mean girl, and I didn't like that. Rosalie deserves her own story being told because none so far have done her justice. In the end, this book was good and I highly recommend it to any Twilight fan. Keep in mind that this is literally the plot of the original Twilight. Don't expect anything new or innovative, just a fresh perspective. That said, I promise you, this perspective will not disappoint. Still, I must admit, there were points in which the book felt overly long.  I kept waiting for certain things to happen and would get annoyed when I realized how early on in the story I still was, despite having read so many pages (this is a 658 page, 240k word novel). It’s about twice the word length of the original novel! But,  I attribute the annoyance to knowing all the major plot points from Twilight. I was waiting for things to occur, waiting for my favorite scenes to come up and waiting, finally, for the action to happen.It is one of the reasons why my rating cannot be higher than what I gave it. This book could never measure up to Twilight for me. My love for that book is based on an emotional attachment to the story rather than the quality or general readability of the novel. Unfortunately, I have no such attachment to this book. While I liked this book, I know that had this not been a Twilight novel, a part of the saga that I have loved for so long, I would not have found it nearly as enjoyable.And yet, having read this, I somehow feel complete. I have been waiting for this book for a decade, and I am so happy that I could finally get my hands on it. I can die happy in knowing that my last impression of Twilight wasn't that awful Life and Death, gender-bent nonsense. Seriously, Life and Death was a trash novel. Midnight Sun, on the other hand, was everything I expected it to be.#TeamEdwardFollow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest