It takes another kind of genius to sell us the same story three times and still get us hyped up for it.Twilight has it's flaws. This we know. This we acknowledge. It's like one of those low budget soap operas. You know it's terrible shit, but you also can't stop yourself from watching the next episode. Well that's how it is for me anyway. If you're thinking of picking this up please know that it's basically the exact same story as Twilight (book 1) with a few added parts since (unbelievably) Edward is not always glued to Bella's side. Even though this book took me ages to read, I laughed at all the cringey scenes but also thoroughly enjoyed myself. I got a tad bit annoyed at the sense of deja vu but then again I've read and reread this series waaaaayy more times than I'd like to admit. I always used to think of Bella as having a personality of a potato. But I kind of get her ‘allure’ to Edward now. Edward is very perceptive and I liked the things he noticed about Bella's character. The way he is able to read minds and NOT able read Bella's mind means that he picked up on all her little quirks and sees her in a different light than she sees herself. He actually made me like her. *GASP* I honestly cannot believe I just wrote that. I've also always been hardcore #TeamJacob (don't come at me for that) but reading from Edwards POV has nudged me just a tiny bit to the other side. He's more real than he appeared in the other books. I loved reading about his inner turmoil and the way he justifies his crazy actions. However the dude is still a creepy stalker ( #TeamJacob4evaaaaa).In Midnight Sun we not only get Edward's POV but also his insight and the thoughts he reads through other people's minds. Which was fascinating!! I honestly don't know how he stays sane. Learning more about Edward, Alice and Jasper's powers/abilities was so cool.I loved the flashbacks. We got to know more about Edwards early days, more about Carlisle, how Alice and Jasper joined the family and other fun stuff! Bella is an outsider looking in to the Cullen crew. But Edward's perspective as a member of the family was precious. Those were some of my favourite parts of this book. Rosalie is one of my favourite characters. Yes, she's a bitch. But I love it. The more in depth version of how she found Emmet had me almost in tears (okay that's a lie. I was in tears). It was beautiful. Every single time Edward referred to ‘the monster inside me’ . It was just so cringe. And it happened so often I started laughing everytime he said it. Final thoughts:It would have been better if Twilight was first written with alternating POV from both Bella and Edward. Is this book a necessary read? Definitely not. But I'm glad I read it. It's for those of us with a sentimental attachment to these books and these characters, those of us who have been waiting years for Edward's side of the story.I highly recommend the audiobook. The best part of this whole experience was having Jake Abel and his beautiful voice in my head for hours (I swear that sounded less creepy in my head. clearly Edward's creep vibes have been rubbing off on me). He did a phenomenal job at narrating. ✨ 3.5 stars [I think pomegranates can be sexy however THAT pomegranate is not it, just saying.]