I’m swimming at the complex feelings sea, keeping my head above as forming thought balloons. I wish I read this book 10 years ago. It should have been released as soon as the trilogy has ended so I could have given my five shiny stars because this book is definitely written better, bringing out more clear perspective to the characters’ stories, their motives. But it is still flawed and there are still plot holes, logical mistakes. But right now, everything has changed: my taste of music, food, literature, movies completely evolved. In last 15 years I became vegetarian, yoga instructor and cut the alcohol, meditating daily, supporting Republicans. Okay, I take them back. Especially the part about my political choices ( don’t worry I didn’t lose every marbles in my head. It was my coldest joke. After writing it, I’m still shivering!) I didn’t radically changed but I’m not in my twenties anymore and I am not fan girl of Edward Cullen. Now I’m in my forties and I’m fan of new Batman. (See, my tastes are already evolved. I’m not obsessed with blonde, charming Brit and I don’t cry each time Cedric Diggory dies when I watch Harry Potter and Goblet of Fire! Okay, this is another lie! Of course I’m crying! )I have to admit this book is great contribution to the series and writing still is obviously so much better. I truly loved to be inside of Edward Cullen’s head and it already filled so many blank points about him and Bella’s story. He is not perfect. He is tormented by his inner feelings: animal inside of him tries to slake his thirst. And his human parts start to discover Bella’s attributes which help us look from the different mirror to the character and understand how she is so unique. ( Actually we also learn more about her high school friends who were mostly hatable! I really question author’s reasoning to create those irritating friends group reminded you of cheesy 80’s thriller movie characters who were extremely stupid and became first ones to die! Maybe their only contribution was emphasizing Bella’s incredibly perfect attributes!!! )And I’m still lost why Edward deeply fell in love with Bella. It is still instant, too quick. The pacing is good but it is still too much wordy. If I haven’t been inside one of my favorite characters’ head, I would scream him shut the hell up and tell me his shorter version of the story.And of course we already know the entire story. So there is no surprising element! (Edward could have killed Bella, imprinted on Jacob which would be my all time favorite alternative final!) So we keep living deja vu, time traveling, remembering our past reading journey over and over again. But this book reminded me of how much I liked Emmet and Alice as supporting characters and I’m so happy to spend longer time with them. So it is belated meeting and back to past, tribute to one of the most popular trilogy kind of reading for me. I wish I wouldn’t take so much time to come out and I wish it could be a little shorter. I didn’t fall in love with it but I didn’t unlike it. It’s a solid three starred read for me. I had fun to go back and meet with the characters, rekindling my memories. But that’s all. Unfortunately this is not extremely exciting, earth shattering experience for me.bloginstagramfacebooktwitter