I was eager to put my eyes on “The Heroes”, because I was still high from Best Served Cold and I didn’t read Mr. Abercrombie’s book for some time. The fact is that “The Heroes” decreased my fangirlism a little bit. But let’s start from the tasty bits. Joe Abercrombie always has smth tasty in his books. “The Heroes” is a military fantasy novel, which offered me a rather unique and interesting glimpse into war and warriors who are annoyed with fighting a war.I always love to find the so called Abercrombie’s realism in his characters, action and the gritty fight. The characters feel real. They aren’t perfect (in a good way) and they have emotions. Their manners, speech and thoughts allowed me to imagine them better. I could live and feel their life in my thoughts. The battle episodes were like a good, disgusting, bloody and gritty movie. Quite a lovely stuff :DMoreover, with the rivers of blood, loads of deaths, toils of political intrigues and grim, dark humor there is a story here that is very real and in places even touching. The story is told from different points of view: the sly cowards, the courageous honorable heroes, the greedy mercenaries or the ones who were forced to fight. I liked how Mr. Abercrombie blended fantasy and military in the story. It was interesting and new to me because I love fantasy and I avoid military books. Some things weren’t tasty for me and as I mentioned before – decreased my fangirlism. At first I was put off by a slow start and the Gorst's attempts (not quite successful) to match Glokta (<3) with his inner dialogues. Also I found quite a bunch of characters, so I had to stop sometimes to go back to clarify who's who. But (as usual) these things make an individual story and I ended up quite enjoying it. As a matter of fact it took me about 100 pages to put all dots on i: who was who, where they were going, who and why they were fighting for and etc. Once it was settled I felt myself thrown into a dark, gritty world with sharp fighting scenes and realistic characters.