I now have a YouTube channel that I run with my brother, called 'The Brothers Gwynne'. Check it out - The Brothers Gwynne“The truth is like salt. Men want to taste a little, but too much makes everyone sick.” Continuing my recent Joe Abercrombie First Law binge with the second standalone story, The Heroes. But, do not be fooled by the title. There are no heroes, just in keeping with everything in this world to date. No glory. No winners. No heroes. As always, most of the characters are self-serving, calculating and traitorous figures with a variety of power, with the main goal being just to survive. But, despite that, as a reader I love to accompany them.The Heroes returns us to the north, reuniting us with some characters who survived the original trilogy (which isn’t many), as well as a nice variety of new characters. All the PoV characters are one of these new figures thrust into the story, with the older ones being seen around them, but still acting a pivotal moments throughout.“Get what you can with words, because words are free, but the words of an armed man ring that much sweeter.” Whilst I did not connect with all the characters, as I did in the original trilogy, there are some amazing ones, and many of the perspectives are genius. I really enjoyed the arc of Craw and also Beck, and Gorst was hilarious as I was expecting, but with a depth I was not expecting as well, in a good way. So, whilst I probably prefer the cast overall in the trilogy, those in The Heroes still surpass the majority of other books I have read. Joe Abercrombie is known for the strength and depth and originality of his characters, and once again he delivers in The Heroes.Whilst trying not to regurgitate what I have said for every other Abercrombie book I have reviewed, I will mention again that his prose is brilliant. It is used to reveal so much about the characters, depending on the perspective he is with, with specific vernacular and structure enforcing the creation and crafting of character. Also, whilst talking about prose I cannot ignore a certain chapter in this. In an action sequence, we follow about a dozen perspectives who we do not follow again before or after. You change to the perspective of the killer of the previous character. And the way it is done is absolutely masterful. It has become iconic since, and for good reason.“It is easy to forget how much you have, when your eyes are always fixed on what you have not.” The drawbacks for me was, firstly, not feeling attached to Tunny, so there were points I just wanted to get back to other characters. And secondly, one of the major events at the end made me feel a bit cheated. It didn’t feel as real to me, in absolute contrast to everything going on. I found that a bit jarring. But otherwise, everything was fantastic. When these are the only two things that detracted from the story a bit, then it is obviously still great.“Names turned over by time, like the plough turning the soil. Bringing up the new while the old were buried in the mud.” The Heroes is the second standalone in this world, with its own nearly wrapped story within the larger world of the First Law, but it still has a feeling of gravitas and also of high stakes. It has brilliant characters, wonderful prose, and an awesome concept.4.5/5 STARS