Words cannot describe how much I despise this book, but boy am I gonna try. I was genuinely shocked at how wildly inaccurate Madeline Miller’s “interpretation” of these characters is, and I’m still shocked by the blatant misogyny, homophobia, and overall poor writing. Miller said she spent ten years—the length of the Trojan War—on writing this novel. My opinion is that she should’ve spent Odysseus’s journey home as well before sending it off for publishing... or just given the manuscript the Clytemnestra treatment.Here are some issues I had, helpfully organised by topic.PATROCLUSIn the Iliad Patroclus is one of the Achaeans’ most formidable warriors: he kills more than almost any other character, including a son of Zeus; he convincingly portrays Achilles to the point that the Achaeans’ own armies are roused to battle again; he’s only stopped from scaling the walls of Troy itself when the god Apollo himself plucks him off the wall the fourth time he tries, so that Hector can fight him. Patroclus is Achilles’s equal—put a pin in that, by the way, because it’s an important detail.The way Miller writes him is nothing like that. A certain amount of leeway is to be expected, of course, but changing the character and personality of one of Homer’s most famous figures to such an extent is beyond bizarre. Miller writes him as a limp-wristed medic twink who does nothing but follow Achilles around like a sycophantic pet. When he puts on Achilles’s armour to go into battle, no one thinks he’ll replace Achilles; everyone—Achilles included!—thinks he’ll fall instantly. The Homeric Patroclus was an excellent fighter in his own right, but Miller’s Patroclus is a waifish pansy who can barely lift a spear.Miller writes him like a modern stereotype of a “bottom,” which would be homophobic in its own right even if she weren’t making it so that he and Achilles (as she writes them) would fit neatly into a seme/uke dynamic. Achilles and Patroclus notably did not fit into the roles expected of a same-sex relationship at the time, despite how Miller writes it.ACHILLESThe first line of the Iliad identifies the crux of the story: rage. Achilles’s rage is his defining characteristic, not his warmth or his kindness or his gentleness. His moments of affection (typically involving Thetis) are always filtered through anger. Even Patroclus calls out Achilles on his shitty behaviour. Part of what makes Achilles such a fascinating character is his flaws: his anger, his intolerance, his blind fury. I’d concede that some of it might be misguided love, but the majority is rage. He’s got some anger issues, okay?Miller doesn’t write about this. She apparently doesn’t understand that Achilles isn’t the moral paragon of this story—the reason he refuses to fight isn’t because he thinks battle is wrong, or killing is evil; it’s because Agamemnon stole one of his slave woman before Achilles could rape her. His character development—which comes too late, at the expense of Patroclus—is in the form of the realisation that he can’t sulk indefinitely in his tent, but he actually has to fight in the war in which he was conscripted.Miller’s Achilles is a two-dimensional cardboard cutout of a tragic figure: all flash and no substance. We’re told over and over how amazing Achilles is, but never does any of this alleged amazingness ever feature. While Patroclus waxes lyrical over Achilles’s swift ankles (get it?) or whatever, the audience is left wondering if Patroclus’s Achilles is an entirely different character from the one Miller has written. Which brings me to—BAD WRITINGMuch like Cat Valente, whose writing I also vehemently dislike, Miller’s prose is “good” in the sense that it lends itself well to a thousand out-of-context quotes on Instagram posts. In a publishing industry heavily reliant on social media and word-of-mouth marketing, I can’t necessarily condemn this; I dislike it, sure, but it clearly sells. Miller wrote some genuinely evocative and stunning lines—I’m sure you’ve seen them all over Tumblr—but in terms of actual writing (pacing, character development, characterisation, pathos) there’s no talent present. I’m fairly certain that, were the basic plot not already laid out for her, she’d do poorly in that area as well.Part of what makes the Iliad so culturally tenacious is its ties to oral tradition. Stories passed down via oral tradition, such as Homeric epics or the story of Gilgamesh, tend to focus on repetition (stock phrases, epithets, exposition, etc.). Much in the way an engrossing campfire tale would be best told through performance, the Iliad was probably never intended to be an actual historical account—it was sensationalised hearsay, meant to rhapsodise on the great heroes and their epic battles. The catalogue of ships is not good writing in the sense that it makes a good story; it’s more of an account of who came from where, brought what with them, and so on. What fascinates us about the Iliad today is partially its importance to historiography and partially its characters—who amongst us hasn’t felt the same emotions as Achilles, Andromache, Briseis, Hector? But there were countless stories of that type that were simply lost to history.Miller’s rendition is, in a word, forgettable.THE RELATIONSHIP, PART I: WHO WHAT WHEN WHERE WHYThe Iliad opens with exposition, and doesn’t shy away from use of it. Conversely, Miller relies on the fact that her audience is already familiar with not only the Iliad but also Greek mythology in general, because she doesn’t spare much thought to writing the reasons why Achilles and Patroclus are in love. What draws them together? Miller doesn’t say. Why is Achilles so special? We never learn. What about Patroclus caught Achilles’s attention, when he could have his pick of women or men? No answer is given. There’s no narrative depth or development to their relationship, so the emotional core of the story—Patroclus’s death—rings hollow.THE RELATIONSHIP, PART II: TOXIC MASCULINITYAs I mentioned in the section on Patroclus, one of the main issues I had with Miller’s framing of the Achilles–Patroclus relationship within a sort of seme/uke dynamic is that it wasn’t like that in the Iliad. In reality the fact that it wasn’t was so notable that scholars both contemporary and later were arguing back and forth about which of them was the “top” and which the “bottom” in their sexual relationship. Both in classical antiquity and in modernity, the fact that they were equals makes them stand out. Miller could’ve taken this unique relationship and made something revolutionary and groundbreaking of it, but she chose not to. Instead, Patroclus is effeminate, innocent, campy, and squeamish about the blood and guts of war. He’s a “healer” who stays in the tents while Achilles is off slaughtering men on the battlefield. He’s soft-hearted and empathetic, crying while Achilles is emotionless—never mind the fact that, in the Iliad, Achilles wept so hard and so long at Patroclus’s death that the sound of his cries reached the bottom of the sea and alerted Thetis, who came barrelling up to see what was wrong.The result of this, of course, is that Miller’s portrayal of a gay relationship is basically just a heteronormative straight one. Patroclus could be replaced by a woman and it would change absolutely nothing about the story Miller has written. In essence, Miller has told the audience that queer relationships are fundamentally the same as heterosexual ones, and that makes them okay!... with no apparent knowledge of or care as to how this might contribute to the perpetuation of homophobia in the real world. It’s not an accurate portrayal of the characters she claims to love so much, and it’s unintentionally homophobic at best.MISOGYNY, PART II could go on for years about how much I hate how Miller writes women (for more of that, see Circe), but it can be easily summarised: Miller has two types of woman, “plain supportive non-threatening wing(wo)man” or “conventionally attractive evil jealous bitch,” and those are the only female characters she writes.MISOGYNY, PART II: THETISIn the interest of transparency I’ll admit upfront that Thetis is one of my favourite characters in the Iliad. She’s a fascinating figure, a rape victim who never wanted children and fled from her abusive husband as soon as she could, but still loved her son and visited him whenever possible, trying to protect him from being conscripted into the war and then, when it was inevitable, pulling strings by exploiting her godly connections to convince Hephaestus to forge Achilles’s shield. She dipped him in the Styx when he was a baby because she wanted to protect him. As I mentioned, Achilles cried so loudly when Patroclus died that Thetis heard him from the ocean floor and came to the surface to console him. She helped him care for Patroclus’s body and build his pyre. And does Miller write Thetis as the immortal nereid who loved her mortal son? No, of course not. Miller writes her as a jealous, scheming villain who hates Patroclus and who abandoned her son—never mind that she was and did the opposite in the Iliad! Thetis loved her son so much she tried to make him immortal so she could keep him with her forever, and was only prevented from doing so by Peleus, her rapist and Achilles’s father.Here’s what Miller has to say on that particular topic:“An ordinary wife would have counted herself lucky to find a husband with [Peleus’s] mildness, his smile-lined face.”Mildness?! He tricked her and raped her, at which point the gods forced her to marry him and stay with him for a year, during which time he continued to abuse her. And Miller blames her for escaping at the earliest possible moment. Miller’s reasoning for Thetis’s escape is that she loathed his human simplicity and mortality, instead of, oh, I don’t know, the fact that he raped and abused her!And then Miller has the audacity to make Thetis act as the instigator of a sexual relationship between Achilles and Deidamia—a sexual relationship which Miller writes as notably non-consensual on Achilles’s part. Thetis, a rape victim herself, who loved her son more than anything, not only allowed but also facilitated his rape. I don’t think I have to further explain how disgusting this is. Miller described Thetis as “cruel,” but I’d say Miller’s own depiction of the character was far more cruel than Thetis ever was.MISOGYNY, PART III: BRISEIS(For a better portrayal of Briseis, I’d recommend Pat Barker’s Silence of the Girls.)Briseis is a complicated figure. In the Iliad she’s barely a character at all, more of a narrative catalyst and a thing over which to be fought. Briseis was captured, and then raped, by Achilles. Not only does Miller remove this detail (because how dare Achilles be anything less than perfect), she also makes Briseis fall in love with Patroclus. Again, a woman is an obstacle between Achilles and Patroclus. Was Miller worried we wouldn’t be invested in their relationship if it weren’t constantly challenged by heterosexuality?Also bizarre is the fact that, while all of Miller’s women are either villains, obstacles, or dalliances, every (sympathetic) man is bestowed with modern twenty-first-century feminist mindsets—not only are Briseis and the other women captured by Achilles not assaulted, but they also come to care for him and for Patroclus because of how kind and respectful these men are. This would be lovely in real life, of course, but it’s not what happened in the Iliad.MISOGYNY, PART IV: DEIDAMIAOne of the seven daughters of King Lycomedes amidst whom Achilles was concealed when Thetis dressed him up in drag to hide him from the war recruiters, Deidamia is a minor character in Achilles’s story. She and Achilles had a sexual relationship (despite the fact that they couldn’t have been older than 14–15), and Deidamia later gave birth to Neoptolemus—known as Pyrrhus after the name Achilles adopted while disguised as a woman: Pyrrha.In Miller’s version Deidamia rapes Achilles in order to get pregnant. Miller invented this entirely, for some inexplicable reason. Later, in a weird sort of revenge(?), Patroclus also has sex with her. It’s graphically described in a way the various sex scenes between Achilles and Patroclus never are (the word “oily” or “greasy” is featured, if I recall correctly), and decidedly uncomfortable. This contributes nothing to the story as a whole.MISOGYNY, PART V: HELENMiller barely mentions Helen, but what little attention Helen does get is not exactly glowing. The narrative of Helen as an evil seductress instead of a victim is hardly new—it crops up as early as the Oresteia, when Orestes blames Helen for the murder of his father—but it never gets any less disappointing. Helen was bewitched by Aphrodite and given as a prize to Paris. Regardless of whether she truly grew to love him or always longed to go back to Menelaus, blaming her for the war is ahistorical and misogynistic.THE RELATIONSHIP, PART III: HOMOPHOBIAAnyone who says that ancient Greece was 100% accepting of homosexual relationships is factually incorrect. Our modern idea of sexuality cannot be applied to ancient societies (the term for this is presentism). Although same-sex relationships between men were indeed commonplace, they were not typically considered on the same level as heterosexual relationships (often associated with marriage—love and marriage were discrete topics throughout much of history). What was common amongst men was pederasty, a relationship dynamic in which the older man, typically more knowledgeable and experienced, was the erastes (active partner) and the younger man, typically less-experienced and more effeminate, was the eromenos (passive partner). Obviously the notion of top/bottom dynamics has persisted into modern queer relationships, although in reality it’s rare that one person will prefer being exclusively one or the other.Also important to any discussion of this dynamic is the reason it was so accepted: misogyny. Partially this was a result of the focus on the act of penetration, i.e., the penetrator was the more masculine, and the penetrated was effeminate. Women were also viewed as incapable of love to the same extent that men were, and so the “ideal” relationship was between two men, who were intellectual equals, as opposed to women, who (it was believed) weren’t capable of the same degree of affection. This delusion persisted into modernity, often resulting in homosocial relationships, if not outright homosexual ones.Achilles’s and Patroclus’s relationship was a subject of interest to ancient scholars and philosophers, because it defied the traditional pederastic roles into which homosexual relationships were expected to fall, namely because both Achilles and Patroclus were accomplished warriors, were of an age, and had distinguished themselves in battle independently of each other—in short, it was unclear which was erastes and which was eromenos. This dynamic—same-sex love between equals—was rare in ancient Greek societies (Alexander and Hephaistion are another example of a same-sex relationship which did not conform to the expected dynamic), and thus would have been an excellent literary vehicle to discuss and unpack some of these harmful expectations and tropes, both in ancient and modern societies, had Miller cared to do so.BISEXUALITY?This is a minor detail, but it bothered me: Miller’s Achilles is revolted by the concept of even touching a woman, but Achilles did like women, and in fact slept with at least two within the context of the Iliad. Patroclus, whom Miller writes as disgusted by Deidamia’s vagina, also slept with at least one woman in the Iliad. This is a minor change—none of those women except Deidamia and Briseis are important to the story—and I wouldn’t have minded Miller’s changing it had she written more and better female characters.CONCLUSION: LOST POTENTIALMaybe if I weren’t a classicist I might’ve enjoyed it, but I am, so I didn’t. It’s made even worse because Miller herself has an Ivy League classics degree and, while we’re all well-accustomed to seeing bastardisations of the classics in popular media (think Troy or 300), I expect better from someone who matriculated from Brown University. There’s no way she got a degree in classics without having read the Symposium and Phaidros—both of which discuss, at length, the relationship between Achilles and Patroclus. Plato’s characters (mouthpieces, really) discuss how Achilles and Patroclus do not adhere to the traditional pederastic dynamic expected of young men their age. This would actually be an excellent way to dissect and discuss gender roles, sexuality, and heteronormativity in ancient (and, indirectly, modern) society and queer relationships. But instead we get this, and hordes of uneducated high school children fawn over a factually inaccurate, fetishistic, homophobic portrayal of Achilles and Patroclus, and Miller gets rich off her scheming. This is nothing more than poorly written Iliad fan fiction that’s exactly as bad as anything you’d find on LiveJournal circa 2007 (I was born into it... moulded by it...).TL;DR Fuck this book, and fuck everyone who supports it.