“There is no side of you that is not as beautiful as the other half. Not a single inch isn’t stunning.” His lashes lifted, and the intensity in his stare held me captive. “That was true the first time I said it to you, and it is still the truth today and tomorrow.”A confession: I fell in love with Casteel ❤️______________________For the 5th time i'm reading this book and it still doesn't get boring...I have waited for this book for MONTHS and finally, it has been released and I have read it. I have not moved my butt from my bed and continued to read this until someone had to drag me out and tell me to eat some food. So let's just say I have been reading this the whole day. And damn, the book is too good to be true.I could've asked for an ARC, but I waited until the release date. Because you know what? Waiting for it makes the book more exciting to read. Have you ever had a day when you just remembered that the book you've pre-ordered is meant to be released today and you just grin foolishly because you got that book in your hand (reading it)? Well, today was one of those days to me.“I’ll try to escape again.” “I figured as much.” “I’m not going to stop fighting you.” “I wouldn’t want you to.” I thought that was weird. “And I’m not going to marry you.”I was a bit annoyed of that marriage between the two of them being a huge deal and all. I know it's a big thing for Cas (aka Hawke) and Poppy but if felt a tiny bit overreacted. It made it feel like Poppy being too dramatic for saying no to Cas. And the whole Poppy being so 'violent' was a bit weird. I mean, sure, she can be violent when she wants to be, but if felt like it was a bit too much. And the reaction from other people when Poppy held a sharp object just felt a bit forced and all. Nothenless, I quite enjoyed reading Poppy and Cas' adorable arguments because you have to realize when they are fighting over something that is unnecessary, it doesn't feel like it was forced. It's just so funny reading that Poppy still wants to have Cas' head chopped off, but we already know their real feelings for each other. And the cover already said they are going to be married. There are two golden rings. Does that ring any bell?Surprisingly, the pace of the book was genuinely good, considering the fact that the first book took ages for things to start to start heating up a bit. The speed of the book was much better and all, but I felt like some bits were squished in and it ended a bit fast. Some scenes that I wasn't sure that it was useful but I'm sure it had a connection."Which part confuses you the most?" he asked, amber eyes unblinking."It's the part where you think I would actually marry you."I didn't realize until starting reading the book that this was a duology. Or it's a sequel. I thought it was a series, but then again, the story is what matters the most. Not if it's a duology or a series or a trilogy or others. It starts right off from where Hawke announces that he's going to marry Poppy. I was eager to read on for reasons why he would do that, since his original plan involved trading her to get his brother back. Obviously, they fell in love and things changed, so the conclusion was that they were to marry.Unsurprisingly, Poppy doesn't accept it because she's still wounded by Cas' lies and betrayal. So half of the story is about Poppy being confused (about her feelings) and the rest is the journey to go to Atlantia. It's long, but I like long books because I don't have to stop reading it. I keep going and going but then, JLA had to stop where there were SO MANY questions that I have. I'm pretty sure they would be answered, but just to let you know, I am NOT happy that I was left hanging. We also get a lot from other characters as well, and I truly did love them all. Especially Kieran. He's even more funnier than I gave him credit for. I like him. But I'm still #TeamCasteelDa'Near.“You’re welcome,” I panted. “For saving your life.” Breathing raggedly, he jerked the sword back. A wide, bloody smile broke out across his face. “Would this be an inappropriate time to let you know I’m incredibly turned on by you right now?” “Yes.” My gaze shifted to the guard staggering to his feet behind him. “Highly inappropriate.”Poppy is such a badass character and extremely lovable because she totally has a warm heart. She's brave, bold, and beautiful. Even when there are scars on her face, she's still an amazing character. She cares for those she loves, smiles and teases them and mostly, we'll probably do anything to save them. Oh, and we cannot forget her random questions thrown at Kieran and Cas. She's so curious about everything. I'm surprised she hasn't asked the question, "Keiran, why is the sky blue?" or something very random like that. And that made me lik her more as a character.Hawke, who incredibly, irritatingly, (and really, really adorable) is the prince of Atlantia who, has officially got my heart. He just, matches Poppy so well. Their words are always like a challenge but it still makes me laugh so much. I can't believe I once thought he was evil (ok, he may be a tiny bit evil in some places but he's good guy).I have to say, romance in this book was everything. It was about Cas (maybe I should call him Hawke? Because there's a reason behind that name) and Poppy's marriage and their growing feelings. But at one point, I was jealous. Yup, I got jealous for Poppy because Cas had a lover who presumably he loved deeply. The fact that Poppy and Cas had to do some let's pretend game, the romance felt forced. Because they weren't actually aware of their feelings when it came to one another and then finally, they come to a conclusion which I shouted a thank you at them for declaring that a bit late for me.But, I loved this book. SO MUCH. Let's just say some of the reasons I loved this book was because of Cas' existen. I'm always #TeamCasteelDa'Neer. Oh, and did I mention that there is some small chapters of Cas' (at that time, Hawke's) POV when he met Poppy at the Red Pearl? I still have that to read....