5 Stars Overview: Re-ReadUmm... I don't have more to add except that I love this book and it's one of my all-time favorites? I appreciate so much more this time around and all of these characters are phenomenal.Except Cheng, who exists here only to set his character up for the next book. And Maura, who continues to make bad decisions always.Original Review Here’s the thing with this series. The plot is… odd. You open the first book expecting something about prep-school boys and maybe ghosts but then there’s magical trees and an expedition for a dead Welsh King.  (Or at least, I did.)It’s definitely original and exciting—but it’s still odd. Somehow, despite how abstract and engrossing the plot points are, it doesn’t feel like the focus of the story. Instead, it’s the characters.(Actual convo I had with my friend tonight. I think he’s starting to get it.) The character development here was as nuanced as it was subtle. We’ve all heard about "showing vs telling and this book handles this masterfully. At no point are we told “Character A is doing this because of X.” Instead, Steifvater understands her readers are smart enough to pick up on the character motivation if she shows it well. We’re given wonderful insights into the character’s heads, but we are never just told. I don’t understand people who claim this book is a ‘filler.’ The sheer amount of development here was phenomenal. Adam”He left bloody fingerprints on the rock, but there was something satisfying about that. I was here. I exist. I’m alive, because I bleed.”-	Arguably has the most development of anyone.-	Still my fav <3-	There such a focus on him finding balance. With Cabeswater. With his friends. With himself. AND IT'S GREAT.-	He becomes so aware of his own agency here and I’m just so proud because he DESERVES happiness okay?Ronan“Adam was beginning to realize that he hadn't known Ronan at all. Or rather, he had known part of him and assumed it was all of him.” -	Literally made me cry. -	Like he thinks and feels with this intensity and it was captivating. Before I knew it I was crying witnessing what he pulls out of his dreams.-	Jesus this boy is crushing haaaarrrrrddddd.-	(I ship it so much omfg) -	The image of Ronan curled up with that blue blanket at The Barns is so poignant and just beautifully done.Blue“It was amazing that she and Ronan didn’t get along better, because they were different brands of the same impossible stuff.” -	So let’s talk about this firecracker for a second, shall we? -	She is 200%, absolutely, completely flawed.-	She overreacts. She’s rude. She can be insensitive without realizing it. Flaws. -	But she feels real. - I don’t need perfect characters. None of the others are perfect either, and Blue shouldn’t be held to a higher standard.-	She’s still super frustrating, but well-written.Gansey““I don’t know what I’ll do if I find him, Noah. I don’t know what I’ll be if I’m not looking for him. I don’t know the first thing about how to be that person again.” -	These freaking hornets. -	Gansey’s whole arc this book revolves around fear and how it factors into his identify and it was GREAT-	I’m so envious of his social skills, but also incredibly intimated. -	Still a larger-than life hero, but he’s aware of it?-	I actually love that he and Blue have their whole moral dilemma here. But I am 100% Team: No More Pain for Adam, but the whole plot really humanizes Gansey quite a bit. It’s fascinating to watch him struggle with something. -	That sexy handholding tho.Others-	I don't understand any of Maura's decisions. Ever. -	Calla and Persphone were expanded upon so much more in this volume! They really became their own individuals, and it was very interesting to see how they functioned together and with Maura. -	Will Gwenlillian make more sense later? Because she was suppppeerr random here. What is the deal with the singing?-	Henry Cheng seems to exist here primarily to set him up for the next book, and I’m not sure what to think. He seems… scattered? -	This narrative is so… aware? I don’t have a better way to describe it. But it feels aware of so much. The fact that all these friendships are borderline-codependent isn’t glossed over. Self-proclaimed feminist Blue addresses characters who feel her ‘story’ didn’t start until she met the boys. It just feels acutely aware of the audience without being shaped by it?“I think it's crazy how you're in love with all those raven boys."Again. Same.