Blue Lily, Lily Blue (RC 03), by Maggie Stiefvater: 5 “Barrel of Monkeys” Stars.“ ‘What’s that slowly phrase?’ Noah asked. ‘Slowly, slowly …’‘… catchy monkey,’ Gansey finished.” ~ Noah Czerny & Richard Gansey III.According to the Oxford Dictionary of Proverbs, the phrase Noah refers to is actually: Softly, softly, catchee monkey. Basically, it means that in very tricky situations – like catching monkeys – prudence, preparation, and patience are more effective than impulsiveness, irrationality, and impetuosity. In other words, the characters in Maggie Stiefvater’s Raven Cycle series better stock up on smarts and endurance because all of them have a shit-ton of monkeys to catchee. “I think I miss this part. The beginning. This is the beginning, right? Oh, wait, no, it’s the other one. I forgot. I actually hate this part.” ~ Noah Czerny.If The Dream Thieves (Raven Cycle 02) is about secrets and fears, then Blue Lily, Lily Blue is about endings and beginnings. Before new things can begin, old things must end. Which means: Blue and her psychics must catch Maura. Maura must catch Blue’s father. Ronan and Mr. Grey must catch a very bad man, before a very bad man catches them. And Adam must catch himself. Then, everyone must help Gansey catch Glendower because no one wants Gansey to die.  “All I’d like to know is if there is any way to get here from what I’m doing now.” ~ Blue Sargent.While catching specific monkeys will no doubt be hella hard, catching general monkeys will be darn near impossible. Generally speaking, there are some mega ginormous general monkeys in Henrietta and they all want to teach our brave, little group some mega ginormous lessons about life and adulthood (in general), and themselves (in particular). And, therein lies another main theme of, The Raven Cycle series. Because:TRUTH: There’s always a way to get where you want to go. TRUTH: Getting there will be difficult. TRUTH: If you want to get there bad enough, you’ll find a way. TRUTH: It’s easier if you remember to Softly, softly catchee monkey, because if you take the wrong path, you can always turn around, but it'll take a hell of a lot longer to get where you want to go. “Well, this looks like a barrel of monkeys, pun intended!” ~ Ms. Shiftlet (Blue’s Guidance Councilor).Indeed it does, Ms. Shiftlet! Indeed it does! In fact, the whole Raven Cycle series not only looks like a barrel of monkeys, it is a barrel of monkeys, pun intended! But hey! I’ve got one book left to read, so I better quit monkeying around and get to it. Blue Lily, Lily Blue (Raven Cycle 03), by Maggie Stiefvater: 5 “Barrel of Monkeys” Stars.LINKS TO REVIEWS OF BOOKS 1-2 & 4:The Raven Boys (RC #1): Click Me Baby!The Dream Thieves (RC #2): And Again!The Raven King (RC #4): One More Time!