“Mornings like this one were made for memories.” Isn't it the most obscure and abnormal concept that a book filled with random sequences of the alphabet put together to make some sense, can act as a catalyst to generate a chemistry lab full of emotions? Essentially, you could have an infinite amount of books with the same character count as an airline flight safety manual, but those random string of words put together in just a handful of books can make you feel so intensely. This is what The Raven Cycle does. There should be a damn warning label on the cover that should inform your heart to proceed with caution. _______________Note: All rights belong to the different artists that have created the (fucking amazing) fanart attached to this review. Another Note: This review is broken down with different aspects of tarot cards - linked to different aspects of the book. The KingKings are considered to be the most mature of the Court Cards. They have travelled through life successfully and are now at the pinnacle of experience and understanding. Thus, the Kings represent the fully developed personalities of each of the Suits.Each and every character in this series, can have a way to cut your most vital organs up and still make you beg them to stick around because that's just how addictive they are. I'm talking even the villains, the supposed to be villains, the princesses (Ronan.. don't even try and fight me on this), the knights, the supernatural, the heroes, the kings... You're going to read this and finish it and then envy anyone else that has the ability to experience these wondrous personalities for the first time again. “Let’s leave her,” Ronan said. Gansey replied, “If we abandoned people in caves because they were crazy, you’d still be back in Cabeswater.” The MirrorThe High Priestess symbolizes intuition, psychic energy, the dream world, the unconscious, feelings, instincts and emotions. She senses what is going on below the surface. She is a receptive mirror.I think what I loved was the fact that everything was practically a freakshow. I love that we were constantly surrounded by surreal aspects and dream things. It took away from reality but let us stay in a real world at the same time. So cheers, Stiefvater. You got me all kinds of fucked up. 300 Fox Way and it's residents will forever be a love of mine, and although the plot of the story (personally) is very character driven - we get so many 'paranormal' facets that makes the whole story fly off the pages. "Why does terror grow so much better away from the sun"The MagicianThe first trump or Major Arcana card in most traditional Tarot decks. ... In divination it is considered by some to succeed The Fool card. He is the middle ground. Although there were definitely some problems I came across (hence not enabling the five star rating) It was very easily covered up with the humor and banter in between the chaos of everything that was going on. We got the boys being boys, we saw how each of the gang is slowly growing up and on, we get to witness them falling in love etc. etc. I loved the chemistry we got with Adam and Ronan in this edition, not to mention Blue and Gansey have been a ship from day one - so the progress with them makes my heart happy. Ronan will always be my problematic fave.Adam my chaotic neutral. Gansey, my mother of four. Blue - a hardass, badass, smartass cupcake. And Noah... Noah can't be described because I love him so much. “We are going so slow," Noah said, craning his neck to observe the inevitable queue behind them. "I think I just saw a tricycle pass us.” “I think it's crazy how you're in love with all those raven boys.”I would also like to conclude by advising to always eat your greens. Do Jesse Dittley proud.