×××May contain minor spoilers×××"Queens and kingsKings and queensBlue lily, lily blueCrowns and birdsSwords and thingsBlue lily, lily blue"This book is nothing like I expected. This book was everything I wanted it to be. The book gave me chills, it broke my heart. It made me laugh, it made me mad. It made me crazy. It made me cry - not a lot, not as much as The Raven Boys or The Dream Thieves but little silent tears pooling up in my eyes.This book, at parts, made me forget that Richard Campbell Gansey was going to die. Until something or the other would would violently remind me of that."Blue", he warned, but his voice was chaotic. This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, "I just want to pretend. I want to pretend that I could."He breathed out.What was a kiss without a kiss?This book had more Gansey x Blue moments in it. They were powerful moments with so many emotions that where nothing happens but both their feelings are laid bare for our inspection. And they touched me.And we have Adam. Poor, broken, stupid, proud Adam who promised himself to Cabeswater and is paying the due of his sacrifice. Adam who is in the middle of a lawsuit against his father. Adam who is doing school, after school jobs, realizing that Blue might not be for him after all, letting go of his stupidity a little at a time by realizing that letting Gansey be his friend is not necessarily being beholden to Gansey. Adam whom I hate a little less now. Adam who is the Magician of this quest for the sleeping king.We see a different side of Adam and Ronan's friendship in this book in light of the knowledge of Ronan's crush. It's sweet how much they fight and how much they disagree and how much Adam has guessed and how much of his real feelings is Ronan ready to show. It's sweet and slow and adorable and even though I am not sure whether Ronan x Adam is going to be a thing yet, it's a beautiful friendship nonetheless. I totally ship them.There is a lot happening in this book even if it is shorter than the other two. We have Maura who has run off to look for Butternut after leaving a cryptic note. We also have one not so new and one new character in Colin Greenmantle and his wife Piper who have come to Henrietta for reasons. We have Jesse Dittley - another someone whom Neeve saw and Blue wrote in the night when Blue had first seen Gansey. We have the mysterious cave and mysterious tombs and cryptic messages. And more sleepers.But most of all this is a book about friendship between the five different people and how they all work so well together. They are closer to Glendower now than they ever were and closer to the climax and if all goes as foretold Gansey's death. I wish I did not know it was going to happen at all.4.5 Stars 2015 is too faraway. This ARC was provided to me by the publishers in exchange of an honest review.