So, historical fiction with a fantastical twist might just be my newest obsession! I absolutely loved everything about this; from the historical setting in 19th century Russia, the imaginative magic system, the focus on the royal hierarchy and the plethora of equally lovable character. I already want more from this world!The Crown's Game begins in Vika's perspective and the reader is immediately immersed into this strange, ancient world. We learn early on of Vika's magical abilities and the fear from the common folk that this evokes. I felt an initial affinity with her that made me immediately align to her plight. That is until we learn of the existence of another enchanter, Nikolai, and despite him being Vika's adversary I was just as drawn to his character as I was with Vika's. Skye exhibits a brilliance for creating flawed and yet lovable characters as each and every person introduced had a side to them that evoked my empathy and endearment.The Crown's Game, that the title refers to, does not begin until nearly a quarter of the way through the text. I love how the world and the magic system was fully set up before beginning the quest that the rest of the text is dedicated to. From then on the novel is awash with displays of magical ingeniousness that has the reader and the Russian townsfolk equally as enthralled!My only negative is that, despite the disaster that awaits the loser of The Crown's Game and that the two opponents are literally in a duel until the death, there isn't much tension displayed. I loved seeing the pair exhibit their skill in imaginative and thrilling ways, but never once did I worry over the outcome of these beloved characters. I don't exactly know why that is: I immensely enjoyed their journey but felt a little distanced from it, perhaps. This is a book of unique brilliance and I can only equate it to being the literary love-child of A Game of Thrones and The Night Circus. All I know is, I already can't wait until 2017 and the next installment!