“A myth without a voice is like a dandelion without a breath of wind.No way to spread the seeds.”Victoria Schwab is my favourite. I've read every one of her books, from The Archived to The Near Witch, This Savage Song and Vicious. Alright, not the middle grade/childrens books, but I feel like I'm a little too old for that.I love her. She is one amazing, badass author. She has such a beautiful mind, she writes the most fantastic, dark and thrilling stories. She is truly unique and I'm so excited what the future holds for her (and for her readers).It may not come as a surprise when I tell you that the Shades of Magic series is one of my favourites as well. The concept alone is stunning. ADSOM swept me off my feet. In AGOS I lost my heart to Rhy and Alucard (I lost it to Rhy in ADSOM already, but a heart can be lost more than once when it's Rhy).I had the highest of hopes for this finale. Maybe slightly too high. I think I scared myself a little. And while I loved the book it didn't take me by storm. I think it's one of those "It isn't you, it's me!" cases because I can't find anything wrong with this book. I'm just not in love with it the way I'm in love with book 1 and 2.Writing a conclusion to a series is hard. It happens so (so so so) often that I'm 100% thrilled by a series and then 100% disappointed with the last book. Only a few authors manage to make the finale as great or even better than the prequels. Two rare examples are J.K. Rowling and Nora Sakavic. Even Leigh Bardugo and Maggie Stiefvater can't always convince me and they are two incredible writers.So what happened here? Why was I hesitating to pick this book up, when I was desperately pining for it for a whole year? What was I scared of? Yup, you guessed it: Disappointment.In the end, the pacing was great, but some plot twists felt superfluous, unnecessary. Red London is in a state of panic and destruction. Osaron is the most powerful evil black magician ever. There is no time for anything but battle preparation. And the three most powerful magicians, the three people who are truly capable of destroying Osaron leave the country for several days? I'm not sure that's very realistic. There were several situations like this, some where I thought that they could have been left out of the book entirely and nothing would have changed except for the page count. In the end, a smaller page count and a more crafted and compromised plot would have improved the book and left me more satisfied.This fantasy world also lost some of its magic. Book 1 was so special and creative, book 2 introduced us to new cultures and characters, but book 3 didn't have this original and simply magical feeling to it anymore. Something went missing along the way. Even my favourite ship (Rhylucard) was less exciting than before.Luckily Victoria's writing is on point. Here dialogues are simply really  good and so is the world she created. I'm also glad that Lila finally got a grip and got off this ego trip that she was on in AGOS. She annoyed me to hell and back.I couldn't give this book 5 stars even if I wanted to and 3 stars would have been the understatement of the year, but 4 stars feel just right.Victoria Schwab deserves a break. She is writing books like a madwoman and her books are intense and nervewracking and probably a hard piece of work for the author. And while I can't wait for Vengeful and Our Dark Duet I just want to say thank you so much for the wonderful stories you share with us. You are truly awesome.Find more of my books on Instagram