the only reason i haven't skewered and started roasting myself like a kabob for not finishing A Conjuring of Light the first time around is because i finished it the second time and appreciated it for all that it is worth, dEAR LORd.you know that feeling when you've just walked out of the theater after watching a bomb! ass! movie! that has literally changed your entire being because you've, like, dementored the shit out of it and feel like you're 73% what you've just watched. that's how i feel after finishing this aND I FEEL LIKE I CAN DO ANYTHING RIGHT NOW. thankfully, i've retained some of my wits (although an argument can be made otherwise) and will not act on this feeling because i'm pretty sure someone'll just end up walking in on me slowly bleeding to death with my foot stuck in a hole in the wall as i try to enter a different universe.this book has taken so much from me .............. my heart, my time, my dignity and i just think back to a few days ago where i was seriously concerned because i thought i wasn't really feeling anything for this book. i thought too much time between the first two had passed and now, this series was nothing more fond memory to be left in its place.i know what you're thinking, who let this plebeian get an account on goodreads and spew this fAKE NEWS. to which i must say....... i hear ya, i respect ya, i'm there. but then things happened and more things happened and those things turned into other things and the things almost ruined ma life and then things thing'd and i'm just here trying to survive The Things.and if that makes no sense so you, then welcome to my life, where this book didn't leave me speechless but speechful and none of it makes any sense but i'm just feelings the feels right now. because these characters find their way into your heart despite your best efforts and the writing is tOP NOTCH and the world-building leaves you breathless. i mean, it's been years since i've said to myself, holy hot darn do i wish this world was real and i was in it but ........ well........ holy hot darn to i wish this world was real and i was in it. all i have left to say is that this series is over and i am Distraught. “But all stories start somewhere, and that night, as he walked through the streets of London, a new myth was taking shape.”