ARC Review:  Inspired by Indian folklore and Greek mythology, The Star-Touched Queen is a beautifully written, captivating story luscious in detail and suffused with vivid imagery.  Cursed with a horoscope upon birth that promises a marriage of death and destruction, seventeen-year old princess Maya is feared by the people in her fathers kingdom. Made to feel outcast and inadequate, Maya embarks on a journey to unravel her true identity. As she embarks on this quest she is met with lies, deceptions, betrayals and finally, the revelation of she really is and what role she plays in this world.  To say that I loved this book, is an understatement. Words can not describe how much I absolutely adored this story. The character development was phenomenal. I truly felt a connection with these characters on many levels. Maya, our main character, who even though she is feared and pushed aside by the rest of the wives and her sisters, she does not let their harsh words and cruel whispers dissuade her from seeking happiness.  In fact, she prefers to be left alone. To let no one in. Except one person, Gauri, her younger sister. Maya would do anything for Gauri. The love she has for her younger sister is a strong and passionate thing. At night, to chase away the bad dreams, she tells her stories of other worlds and its strange mythical creatures.  The Romance was magical. The love story was enchanting and captivating, bringing tears of joy to my eyes. Romance is a strong element in The Star-Touched Queen. Also, get this: NO LOVE TRIANGLE. Refreshing, right?!?! The writing was graciously beautiful and mesmerizing. It made the romance in the story a hundred times more beautiful. The writing was also not only marvelous, but breathtaking. Every word was pure gold. In its own way, it was magical. A piece of art.  The world building was spectacular. Roshani Chokshi has created a world so complex and intricate, it blew me away. Never have I envisioned anything with such great detail.  To top it all, there is a demon horse, Kamala. She is fierce, has a dark sense of humor, and sass for days. Or more like eternity. As a demon horse she loves to eat people. She always wants to eat someone. She jokes constantly and throws sass in every direction. She could eat me and I would put up no fight, I would just thank her. Kamala is my precious diamond. My spirit animal.   And then there's that one-bites on tongue to keep from using an insulting name-person we hate. She infuriated me so much. Like girl I've got some words for you. But anyway, moving on now because spoilers. Just know I really wanted to put in axe in her face.  Full of revelations and a stunning conclusion, The Star-Touched Queen is a remarkable and imaginative story with Indian and Greek mythology woven into every last word. Mark your calendars because The Star-Touched Queen hits shelves April 26th! And trust me, you won't want to miss out on this one.