This book claims to be a parody of popular YA books that feature OTT heroines and plotlines. The main characters go to high school in a world much like our own, except for the indie kids. Indie kids are the nerds with glasses, the disgraced prom queens, the child prodigies - all those teens that always end up as protagonists in a bad YA novel. Every few years, the indie kids will thwart some alien/vampire/ghost invasion and save the world, killing some unimportant side characters and usually blowing up the school while they're at it. The school is rebuilt, funerals are held, and a few months later everyone has forgotten anything unusual ever happened.The Rest of Us Just Live Here focuses on the regular students. Mickey is a high school senior who just wants to graduate before the indie kids get anyone else killed. The story revolves mostly around Mickey's crush on a female friend, as well as the problems of his family and close friends. The premise is really creative. A YA book that's about the Muggles, the normies, the stunt doubles? Brilliant. Each chapter begins with a heading describing what the resident indie kids are up to, saving the world from aliens and accidentally unleashing terrible attacks on the regular population. These headings were probably my favorite part of the book. It was so much fun to hear about these massive plot points being referenced marginally by people as ordinary as Mikey and co. It was like following a citizen on presidential election day and hearing them say "Is something going on today? What are all these people doing out on the street?"In many ways this book was reminiscent of Rainbow Rowell's Carry On. The tone, the premise, especially the focus on deep angsty emotion and mental health. I wasn't happy with the resemblance, since I've never been a fan of the was Rainbow Rowell writes teen narrators. Who in their life ever met a teen as self-aware, as eloquent, or as deeply emotional as RR's main characters? All of Patrick Ness's characters are equally unrealistic, which was off-putting. All in all, I liked it, but not as much as The Knife of Never Letting Go.