"They've always got some story going on that they're the heroes of. The rest of us just have to live here, hovering around the edges, left out of it all, for the most part."I'm a little taken aback by how much I enjoyed this little tale devoid of knives and murder and grand soundbites. The Rest of Us Just Live Here, like its blurb advertises, is about normal kids doing normal stuff, encountering normal problems, while the Clarys and Meghans and Harrys fight supernatural stuff and have sweeping adventures. At the beginning of every chapter, we get a little peek into what the "indie kids"are up to. "Chapter the fourteenth, in which Satchel doubts the Prince's intentions towards her; he weeps, professing his eternal love, one that he's been waiting to give for millennia but had never found a repository for until he met Satchel."Savage. Absolutely savage. Ness pokes fun of YA tropes, like how characters never seem to use the Internet (Hiya, Nora Grey) and the weird names they have (Hiya, Eureka). The protagonist Mike, on the other hand, struggles with his OCD. He helps his sister, who is a recovering anorexic. He takes his little sister to see a boy band. He has an alcoholic father and a mother who's running for Congress. Mundane stuff that Ness somehow makes interesting through excellent characterization and by drawing on worries we have in our everyday lives. What am I going to do after high school? What happens if me and my friends drift apart? We don't get definite endings for every plot line, but the book ends with a message of hope. Life goes on and you just roll with the punches, doing the best you can.The diversity Ness weaves into the cast is awesome, too. But what I really want to praise is its portrayal of mental illness."Feelings don't try to kill you, even the painful ones. Anxiety is a feeling grown too large. A feeling grown aggressive and dangerous. You're responsible for its consequences, you're responsible for treating it. But Michael, you're not responsible for causing it. You're not morally at fault for it. No more than you would be for a tumor."Taking medication isn't admitting defeat. It's usually healthy and necessary, and I wish more books showed it that way.You can pretty much tell by how short this review is that I'm struggling to find the right words to pitch this book. I mean, it's hard. It's simply about ordinary kids living ordinary lives—but that doesn't make it any less extraordinary.