I've always thought of writing as like gardening. The words rooting in my mind. Sentences and paragraphs growing together, sprouting others and more. And sometimes not. Sometimes refusing to break through the concrete blankness, like now.How do I put to words everything that is Descendant of the Crane? I feel as if anything I write would be a disservice to this novel. To all that it encompassed and to all that it brought out. The thing is, I like to nurture what I’ve written over time—tending to the words like a gardener tending to the garden. Always trimming, always refining. Unforgivingly brutal. Tragically beautiful.And yet, those words are not enough for Descendant of the Crane. I admit that after reading, I didn't know what to write. Because the truth is, Descendant of the Crane is not a novel to be contained in words. So, I feel inclined to refrain from what I’ve always done. No more trimming, no more refining. Let the words nurture themselves. Wild, untamed. Phrases snarling, sentences tangling.  In Chinese legends, cranes are said to bear the spirits of the departed to heaven. And that was what Descendant of the Crane was for me—the wings to my soul. I was carried aloft on its feathers, flown to transcendent heights.  And how to describe the writing? Perhaps it was a painting and each word a brushstroke, a vibrant dab of colour across the paper; or perhaps it was a tapestry, the words woven into a mosaic of mesmerising patterns—I'd like to continue waxing poetic, but what point would there be in that? Imagine the acrid aromas of incense coiling through the air. The autumn wind as it whispers sweet secrets to the ginkgo leaves. The scarlet haze of paper lanterns smeared around the edges of silhouettes.Descendant of the Crane was a story about human people in an inhuman world—it was a story about a kingdom which carried the wounds of centuries past, its hurts unhealed and cutting deep, its bitterness and hate festering together like rot.It was a story about a queen who sought to stitch her kingdom back together, to sew its wounds shut and soothe its hurts—a queen who, in the end, rose from the mire of her insecurities and doubts, of her despair and pain, to bloom like a lotus flower from the mud: strong, resilient and beautiful.It was a story that left me with no words.  And you know what?To the Ten Courts of Hell with waxing poetic. I loved it.  Beyond words.  4.5/5 note: thank you to joan he and the publisher, albert whitman company, for the arc!