“What is truth? Scholars seek it. Poets write it. Good Kings pay gold to hear it. But in trying times, truth is the first thing we betray.” ⭐️⭐️ ridiculous starsInstagram | rant on youtubeBuddy-read with the wonderful Ana or attempted to. I, unfortunately, DNF'd it at 75% because I couldn't take the abuse anymore. I think the YA fantasy genre is saturated with average books that are blending in my mind. I stopped reading the Descendant of the Crane and already, I'm mixing it with multiple, similarly plotted fantasies. And no, my head isn't the problem here.  SYNOPSIS: Descendant of the Crane tells the story of Princess Hestina of Yan who's rushed into the role of Queen after her father's sudden demise. However, she has to deal with a plot against the crown, a war conspiracy, and romance, which doesn't make her beginning as Queen convincing for the aristocracy... Since I haven't finished reading Descendant of the Crane, this review will be short. 1. The characters didn't compel me at all. This book was presented as morally grey GoT style, and it doesn't deliver in that regard. I think the main character has the personality of a plant. She was an annoying, spoiled, brat who knows nothing and doesn't learn from her mistakes. She trusts people who haven't given her a reason to and antagonized the people who work in her direction. Reading through her narrow perspective gave me a headache. Hestina thinks one thing and jumps to the polar opposite in 2 seconds and I can't deal with that lack of character consistency. If your character is doing something important for the plot, it needs to feel like the natural development of their train of thoughts. Not a leap. 2. The plot made me want to sleep. The decisions the characters took, made the plot go farther, yes, but at the cost of making thoughtful decisions that make sense. This book is so absurd, I swear. I honestly didn't understand half of the things that were happening. The politics in this book made no sense. The King is poisoned but he doesn't have a food taster. The queen can walk around without guards, she has no advisors, or councils and apparently does everything by herself. 3. The writing style that everyone keeps raving about is nothing impressive. I felt like we were spending times describing a table and the love interest's weird hair instead of focusing on more important things which explained why I was so confused during most of the story. 4. where was the worldbuilding at?? I know YA fantasy books in 2019 are lighter and closer to be medieval historical fiction but it's not an excuse to scramble two pieces of magic together and call it a day. Who the fuck runs this kingdom? I'm confused. How is this not anarchy? Anyway, I shouldn't have called this review short considering it's pretty long now. But apparently, I had things to say. It seems I haven't read the same book as everyone else, but I'm still glad some people are enjoying this. I'm just getting too old for this ;)