2 to perhaps 2.5 stars. This book and I just didn't mesh very well, unfortunately. Before I get into the things I didn't care for, I'll list some that I enjoyed:- The writing was pretty good, in particular the action scenes. I think the author did an excellent job building suspense and keeping things engaging in those scenes.- The setting was fresh and unique. I personally haven't read a fantasy book before this one that was set in a colony, and with the complicated politics and issues that come along with it, so that was interesting. - I enjoyed the subplot with Touraine and Jaghotai's relationship. I do wish we'd gotten a little more foreshadowing, but overall it was definitely a highlight of the book for me. As for dislikes, let's begin with our leading protagonist Touraine. I...did not care for her. I believe much of that stems from how little backstory we got, or really any actual showing of her relationships early on. We're told (and told and told) just how much she cares about the other Sands, but those relationships just didn't ring true for me most of the time. As for Touraine herself, well, she's a soldier...and that pretty much sums her up. Or maybe not, because for such a well-trained soldier, she sure makes some odd choices, such as getting drunk while in the camp of the rebels who are rebelling against the country Touraine is working for. I would expect a soldier to be a little more level-headed and actually maybe think a decision through for half a second, but with Touraine, basically every decision she makes is on a whim (and so many of them are so extreme, such as betraying one group and then the next and then the other one again, and so forth). Of course, Touraine is not the only illogical person in this book. Far from it. With the exception of Gil and perhaps Pruett, both fairly minor characters in the grand scheme of the book, pretty much all of the characters in any position of authority seem to forgo any logic when making most of their decisions.Might as well move on to Luca herself at this point. Um, she is not a good ruler-in-training AT ALL. Much like Touraine, she has this habit of making decisions seemingly out of nowhere and with painfully little forethought put into any of them. She knowingly puts people who she finds untrustworthy in positions of power and then is shocked when they abuse their power.The rest of the cast often felt like filler characters playing their role. I'm talking about most of the Sands, Touraine's supposedly beloved family, who are often only treated as fodder by the plot to motivate Touraine. Very few are shown to have any personality beyond their role, such as Pruett being this tough soldier ex(?)-girlfriend or Tibeau, who is kind of the more hopeful friend. At least maybe? I still don't have a good image of him.Swinging back to Touraine and Luca, let's discuss their romance for a moment, shall we? It is after all what so, so many of the decisions in this book are made for. This was the most forced, least respectful, and toxic romance I have read about in a long, long time. There was practically no chemistry between the two leads and they made all these kingdom-shattering decisions based on some slight attraction to one another. I did not for a moment buy into their relationship or feel compelled to “ship" them. What forever tarnished any hope of that was the scene where Touraine belittles Luca's disability. I just could not ship a pair of characters where it's so clear that one party does not respect the other at all, as was clear when Touraine talked over Luca and treated her disability as though it were nothing compared to the things that Touraine, an able-bodied person, witnessed. I know she was trying to make a point about Luca's position of privilege. I am aware of that. But it was just not handled very well if you also want me to imagine these characters together romantically. I haven't really delved into my thoughts on the plot as whole because I really don't know where to begin. To me, the plot overall is little more than a string of one bad decision after another. Touraine passes her “loyalty” out like candy and then just as quickly snatches it out of a person's hand and runs away laughing, then wonders why she keeps making a mess of everything. There were just so many things that happened that made so little sense. Not to mention that the book basically lives off drama and characters backstabbing one another, which can be fun, but in this book felt like filler in place of an actual cohesive plotline. As I mentioned in the list of highlights, I did like some of the worldbuilding. However, there was, like so many aspects of The Unbroken, things that also left me wanting. One thing I enjoyed at first but that disappointed me in the end was how the main country did not have religion  which turns out was because it was banned by the evil Balladerians and the religion is actually good and real. So...there went my hope for an atheistic fantasy setting. For a time there was a nice focus on science, but then it was pretty much replaced by these healing gods once they were introduced.I did not care for the magic, as it seemed that whatever the characters needed, here was some magic to take care of the problem. We were not really shown its limitations and the rules of what all it could do were not clear. If the characters didn't understand the magic and were still trying to figure it out themselves, it would be one thing, but here we had these priests who knew how to use it but were too tight-lipped to say much about it. Of course, since Touraine betrayed them and their secret magic to the enemy ruler, I guess I can't fault them for that. ----------------I really, really wanted to like The Unbroken. I was looking forward to it for months prior to release. It has so many high ratings and seems well-received by so many readers. The premise was sound and intriguing. The execution, sadly, just didn't work for me.