In this politically charged fantasy, we are following Touraine, a soldier stolen as a child and raised to kill and die for the empire. As well as Princess Luca whose sole focus is to get her uncle off her throne. As the two women return to Touraine's homeland in an attempt to stop a brewing rebellion, Touraine faces ties of blood that may be stronger than she initially thought. And Luca is going to have to make some tough decisions to haggle over the price of a nation.I really enjoyed this story! And think that there is so much to it that I will definitely have to reread to fully see the big picture. The biggest element of this story is its discussions and exploration of colonization and the effects it has on both a large and small scale. As well, this story hit many other elements that brand off of c0lonization: racism, internalized racism, white privilege, cultural appropriation, assimilation, and many others. And one of the biggest reasons this book was really successful, was because of how seamlessly all of these themes and more were woven into the narrative.“You don't find a life. You have to make one, with the people around you and the causes you put your strength into.”― C.L. Clark, The UnbrokenOne complaint I have seen others make for this novel is that it isn't "fantasy". And while yes, this story is not heavy on magic or mythical creatures, this is still a story with made-up countries and places and there are still light elements of magic. But I do understand. I did find myself forgetting that this was a fantasy while reading because of how political this story is and how realistic it felt in its themes and characters.The politics and worldbuilding of this story were top-tier. Any fan of political fantasy, military fantasy, and politically heavy books is going to love this. The magic, as I said, is very light and vague and is an element I'm hoping we'll get to explore more as the series goes on. I also really enjoyed how this story pulled from the real-life history of French colonization of northern Africa, an aspect of history that I do not feel like has been drawn from in storytelling much. And while multiple forms of oppression is definitely explored in this story, I was very happy to see that homophobia was not one of them. It is very nice and refreshing to read a fantasy where queerness and queer characters is a norm. As well, the writing of this was absolutely breathtaking at times! I can definitely see C.L. Clark becoming a beloved author of mine.“As it whistles through the mountains, as it tickles blades of grass, as it pulls me from my bed, again, the wind, it cries your name.”― C.L. Clark, The UnbrokenSpeaking of characters, I really enjoyed our two main ones. They are so expertly fleshed out and genuinely felt so real. I absolutely love and would die for Touraine and her biceps. She deserves everything and I especially found her internal conflict and character growth throughout the story amazing and enjoyable to read. As well, Luca is another incredibly written complex character. She is also disabled, using a walking stick due to an injury, and experiences chronic pain. I absolutely loved how the author did such an amazing job of writing Luca as someone much more than their disability. While Touraine and Luca were absolutely amazing, I will say that the side characters in this felt like they didn't get as much development, but that is a small critique for me.“What is war if not a complicated web of mathematics and charm? Luca thought.”― C.L. Clark, The UnbrokenOne of the side plotlines in this is the romance between Touraine and Luca and while it did have its moments, overall it fell a little flat for me. I wish the story did a bit of a better job acknowledging the power difference between Luca and Touraine, a crown princess and a servant. and I don't personally mind romance being a small part of the story but I really felt like there was more used a device to explore some of the themes of the story instead of actually being a plot point in itself.This was an immensely entertaining and compelling novel that I would highly recommend to others!