Thank you to Netgalley and Orbit for providing me with an e-ARC in exchange for an honest review! 4 stars for now, with the potential for a higher rating on reread. I have a lot of thoughts about this book that I think I'll need to reread to be able to fully process, but on first read, I liked this book a lot. I think the way that CL Clark explores the effects of colonization, both at the macro and micro level, is really well done and nuanced, and sparks a lot of discussion. For me, the way that Clark explores this central theme and all the themes that stem from this, is definitely the standout element of this book. Clark dives into internalized racism, white privilege, and cultural appropriation, among other themes, and I just felt like it was all woven into the narrative so seamlessly. The character work for both Luca and Touraine is also fantastic. I would definitely have liked to know some our side characters a little more, but the two main characters were very well fleshed out, and most importantly, they felt so real. I love Touraine. I would die for Touraine (and her biceps). She deserves the world and I found her growth throughout this book so satisfying, and I cannot wait to see where Clark decides to take her character. Luca, on the other hand, is one of the most unlikable and frustrating characters I have read in a long time. That being said, she is SO incredibly well-written. I can't really speak to how well her disability was represented (she uses a walking stick due to an injury and experiences chronic pain), but I did feel like Clark did a good job of making Luca way more than just her disability, and she felt like a very nuanced character to me.I think the only thing that really fell a bit short for me was the romance - I definitely felt like their relationship was underdeveloped, and was more there as a way to explore the themes, rather than a relationship that I could genuinely root for. The worldbuilding and politics in this book was top notch. If you are a fan of political fantasies, this is a must-read. I'd also consider it a military fantasy, but definitely heavier on the politics and strategy than actual fighting. The magic in this book is on the lighter side, and definitely very vague - I'm excited to see it get explained a bit more as the series continues, as it leaves off on a very interesting note. One thing that I really personally appreciate about the world that Clark has created is that it is a queer-normative world. I think this is really refreshing to see in a fantasy world, especially one that deals with heavier themes like colonization where characters are already experiencing other forms of oppression.Overall, I highly recommend this book. This was one of my most anticipated releases of the year, and it certainly did not disappoint.