Here's my favorite thing about Lioness Rampant: it's an epic story that focuses on great storytelling instead of its own legend. It's aware of its importance, and it believes in its importance - but it's not obsessed with its enormous future impact. It's content to tell a great story, and let the legend grow naturally from there.And I think this is a great story. I love that it opens with a young Alanna - young despite her knighthood! - not knowing how to flirt with Liam. I love the way Alanna is determined to be a hero for her country's sake, and that she doesn't stumble upon greatness unexpectedly but deliberately goes after it. And I love the nuance. I think this is the first Pierce book where I can say that. Think about the scholar who tells them about the Dominion Jewel, about how it works for those who are rulers and conquerors by nature, which is why it's often used best by a commoner. Think about the person Alanna believes to be king: how would Roald have used the Jewel? Could he have used it? Alanna tells Liam, when he asks her if she's the best in Tortall, that she doesn't know, because she only fought knights. "There may be some commoners better than me" - Alanna, who's very conscious of her nobility! But it doesn't make her blind.I like her relationship with Thayet. I like how perceptive Thayet is, especially about Alanna. She shows she's smart and diplomatic just by the way she explains to Alanna why she cannot take the Jewel for Sarain. She knows to give the longer explanation so Alanna knows Thayet isn't shirking her duty, and that, more than anything, is what convinces me that Thayet will be a great queen. Showing, not telling: good stuff.More nuance, possibly the most nuance-y of all: Alanna blushed. "Thayet, you're flattering me. It was easier for me to rebel than stay and make something of myself. Why didn't I go to convent school and prove ladies are more than ornaments that way?"I CANNOT EXPRESS THE EXTENT OF MY JOY AT THAT LINE. I LOVE IT SO MUCH. Showing, not telling, part the second: Alanna is really growing up. (Maybe she didn't only teach the Bazhir. Maybe she learned something, too.)Then there's the finale. Alanna thinks, "He expects you to fight. So - stop fighting." I've never been quite clear on how that worked out for her - was the blade traveling too quickly for Roger to duck? What did he think would happen when he called the sword to him? - but I love how it comes full circle: when Alanna first found the blade with Myles, she had to stop fighting, too. And then there's Jonathan, grief-stricken over his parents, not understanding how you could love someone so much you would forget your duty to your people - which is something Thayet voices understanding of, even before Jonathan states it. This book does so much quiet legwork to persuade me that Jon and Thayet will make a great couple.Stuff to ponder: the current plot that centers around Roger seems to have been started by Delia of Eldorne. Which makes me wonder how exactly Roger planned his eventual resurrection. Did he know time was ticking during book two, and if so, why? He must have, because if he'd been really dead, Thom's spell wouldn't have worked. But Delia wasn't at court then, was she? Or is this shades of Voldemort, and he was just paranoid about death all the time? And how about Thom? Wasn't he still pretending to be stupid at that point? On whose magic prowess was Roger depending?Please note that Roger telling Jon straight out, "But they can be defeated, Jonathan. The right man can shake their thrones" tells readers Roger's plans quite neatly, but it also informs Jonathan. Is Roger stupid? DO NOT GO ANNOUNCING YOUR PLANS TO THE PERSON YOU WANT TO DETHRONE, YOU EGOMANIAC. One last point - Alanna's a healer and she knows Thom is dying. Why does she accept that? Why doesn't she try to do anything for him?!The Best Supporting Character award is presented to the Lord Provost, by the way. He's so much fun in this book.I JUST LIKE THIS SO MUCH. And I love how it's referenced in future books - as a major turning point - and here it's a great story that lives up to that label.