Ok, I can't finish this reread.I loved the first book in the series and having read sequels in rapid succession, I think the energy of it helped me to enjoy parts of this one back then. This time, trying to read it more or less as a standalone, I must confess, I am so disappointed and bored. This is a story of Liadan, the granddaughter of the forest, the lesser copy of her mother Sorcha, the special snowflake as every man of the novel keeps telling her. Eamonn took my hand in his and touched it to his lips. “Your sister is indeed very beautiful,” he said, with a trace of a smile. “A man might well dream of such a woman. But it would be your face he wanted to see on his pillow when he woke.” I felt myself blushing crimson and was quite lost for words.“As are you to judge a woman,” I said straightaway. “I need not know you, to recognize what you are,” he said bleakly. “Your kind are all the same....“For you, perhaps, I might make an exception,” he said grudgingly. “You are not so easily classified.”She's a know-it-all domestic lady who loves to spend her time gardening and collecting healing herbs. For me, there is enough excitement in helping to deliver a new lamb, or seeing small oaks grow strong in spring rains. In shooting an arrow straight to the mark, or curing a child of the croup. Why ask for more when what we have is so good?”I kept a brave face, but under it I was petrified with fear. I, the girl who wanted nothing more than to stay at home and tend her herb patch; I, the girl who loved above all to exchange tales with her family of an evening after supper, instructing fierce strangers on how to hack off a dying man’s limb and cauterize the wound with hot iron.And prying into other people's business and being judgmental towards her sister, Niamh. And I really hated their relationship this time.She's a young woman, whose love interest is some guy with big anger issues. There's no building up of this relationship, but it's special, because Liadan knows it.I sensed our fates were intertwined; we were closer than any mates or lovers or partners. This was a link that would transcend death, an unbreakable bond. This seemed ever clearer to me, a certainty that could not be questioned.I just can't be bothered with fated mates trope.There's no adventures, high stakes and horrors of the previous one, just a lot of domestic scenes. And it's so unnecessarily long and padded with countless stories told near the fire that I couldn't care about. Also its kinda sad we stuck with Liadan and her fated boring beau when we had her sister’s intense forbidden love story in the background, who by the way was a completely different character to their mother's and would've been a great one to follow. But alas. And the treatment of Niamh and her shame was so abhorrent, even worse when compared to treating her sister's bigger shame. I know they regretted it later, but still. Niamh was an outsider from the beginning for no reason. I thought I loved Juliet Marillier, but after thinking about all of her books I've read, it turned out I only ever liked her two retellings - Daughter of the forest and Heart's blood. That's why I stopped reading her newer releases. For whatever reason magic of her writing is gone for me. Still I have her two books I enjoy (please, Daughter of the forest, hold up on reread).