There exists a group of people in Northern England whose sustenance is the written word; they live off eating books and retain the knowledge from the texts they consume. Devon is one of these people, born and raised in a society where women are few and are protected at all costs, even to their detriment. She’s raised on a diet of fairytales and happy endings, but as she grows older, she realizes that these books are far from reality. As she struggles with the realities of her life, she begins to wonder if it’s possible to break free from what she’s always known. This was a unique and interesting modern take on vampirism, weaving in elements of gothic-horror to create an immersive atmospheric experience. I enjoyed the setting descriptions and worldbuilding, both of which were descriptive and well written. The author excelled at creating the book eater culture and their politics and infighting. Devon was a realistic and relatable protagonist. I enjoyed the depth of her character and her personal conflicts and struggles. The author used chapters as flashbacks into Devon’s childhood, which made it easy to see how she ended up where she did, and what decisions and struggles led her there. I enjoyed that Devon was a morally grey character who did whatever she needed to for her true family. This led to some fascinating conflict and decisions that added real depth to the stories and the characters. The secondary characters were all well written and were mostly not morally “good,” making a great backdrop for Devon. I also loved the atypical mother/son relationship that was the focus of this work. There are many intense and dark occurrences in this work – it is not a light read. These include emotional and physical abuse, murder, abusive relationships, and deep culturally ingrained misogyny. But the work also explores themes of motherhood, chosen family, and identity in a way that adds to the characters and story. I listened to the audiobook version of this work, and the narrator did an excellent job at bringing the characters to life. Overall, I recommend this work to those who are interested in dark fantasy and the themes mentioned above. My thanks to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for allowing me to read and review this book, which will be published on August 2, 2022. All opinions and thoughts expressed in this review are my own.