I received an ARC from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. Please check the TWs before reading the book itself, and TW for a mention of domestic abuse in this review.“We consume and store and collect all forms of paper flesh as the Creator created us to do, clothed as we are in the skin of humankind. But we do not read, and we cannot write.”Book Eaters are a humanoid kind of vampiric alien race, with six ancient families holed up in stately homes across the UK, consuming books and paper for food, absorbing all information contained within them. There are arranged marriages, cold and efficient transactions, reproduction at speed so as not to miss out on very limited fertility windows. Children are rare and daughters rarest, their “protection” through childhood considered a worthwhile investment for the future of their race and the financial position of their family. Fed on fairytales and kept quiet and dutiful, these girls grow up expected only to serve their purpose. But there are dangerous anomalies in the families: children born not with a hunger for books but for minds and memories. And now there is a mother and child on the run, determined to escape the lives they’re fated to.This was truly horrifying. And utterly brilliant.I flew through most of The Book Eaters in one morning and struggled through the day until I could finish it that night. I was and very much remain (genuinely it’s all I can think about) thoroughly invested in the world of it. Though it’s a contemporary, the rules and structure of the Families are so archaic and appalling that you can so easily forget this fact. Then you’re snapped back to face that reality by someone playing on a PlayStation. And I loved this aspect of it. Unable to retreat into books in the same way we might, characters find their escapism in video games. This hit especially close to home for me as I really turned to them throughout the pandemic. When I couldn’t go anywhere or see anyone, they provided ways to “travel” and “meet up” with my friends. I could run and swim and go adventuring, have special powers and make decisions at a time when I felt I had no control over anything else in my life. They are one of so few constants for a child that has to endure so much change. They allow Devon to imagine ways out, to work until she can get things right.This book focuses on love and motherhood and how there is no inherent goodness in either. They can be dangerous and all-consuming. You can become monstrous in the name of them. It at once asks how far you would go and questions why or if you should even bother. I had a teacher once tell me that she was “too strong” to ever be in an abusive relationship “like other women”, and I could never adequately express why hearing that statement upset me so much until I read this. Here is someone unearthly, notably tall and stronger than any human, with physical abilities beyond comprehension, capable of the most bloody and vicious things. And here are all the unspeakable things that happen to her with often minimal resistance. Your mistreatment is never something you deserve or something brought about as a result of some failing in you. It does not occur because you lacked strength, physical or otherwise. Do something enough, tell a child something as fact enough, and the traumatic can become the everyday. It is conditioning. And the patriarchy takes from us all. Ramsey is forcibly moulded by his environment. Devon is taught from childhood that she is lucky for the treatment she receives and to be grateful for the future that’s been laid out for her, quite literally fed stories to reinforce this over and over. She knows no different until she does, and even then things are held over her to force her into submission, anger quelled until it’s just numbness. And this book deconstructs those fairytale ideas she’s fed, and is testament to how it takes everything in you to untangle yourself from all that you’ve been made to believe about yourself, your worth, and the world around you. It is one thing to come to terms with the fact that you deserve better and another to actively go in search of it.This book is about survival. About how just getting through the day can feel like luck. About a feral kind of laughter in the face of hopelessness. About all the terrible things you’re willing to do just to get by, and how they feel less terrible when you’ve done them enough. And Dean can describe these unthinkable actions so matter of factly, the true horror in the words creeping up on you and only sinking in once you consider what you’ve just been told. But Devon proves that your path and your own safety sometimes have to be carved out from the terrible. And while living cautiously within the jagged-edged confines of what little space you can now make for yourself in the world, you discover that this may be where you’ll find yourself. Or where you can finally be yourself. And like the haircut left from those shorn off plaits, your life is homemade and imperfect and more right than it’s ever been, however it looks. And it’s yours. And that space you're in can get wider with help.The Book Eaters asks us to look at family not always as just who raised us, but who can truly see us for everything that we are and love us all the fiercer for it.This is a dark read with twisted creatures, such an interesting plot, morally grey characters I loved and lesbian and ace rep. I couldn’t have devoured this faster or recommend it more!4.5 ⭐️ (only because there are a couple things I’m still desperate to know)Let me know what you think if you read it!