My review is finalized!It was good overall, but it’s just me complaining about the romance. Otherwise, I think this book is worth checking out and deserves more attention. The plot was simple, but well executed. My main gripe is the forced marital consumption trope, which I dive more into in later paragraphs. 3.5 stars ⭐️I got serious An Ember in the Ashes vibes while reading Empire of Sand. If you like AEITA, I think you will like this. I don’t want to mislead you by telling that this is fast paced like AEITA, because it is not. It is more character-driven and in the slower side. THE GOODThe writing did really worked for me. It was lush, fluid and easy to get through. Plus, the chapters are short, which is always a plus! Even though this book is not an all-time favorite, I still recommend it and I will definitely check out Tasha Suri’s other works in the future. The magic system is based on dancing, which is also original & beautiful!Otherwise, the atmosphere of the two books and the writing style are pretty similar. Also, like Laia, what is more pointed out in Mehr’s character psychological strength and courage instead of physical strength. So, if you are into this kind of heroines, this may be for you. However, Mehr is more into strategy and manipulation, unlike Laia.It is nice to read a fantasy in a temple and desert setting. However, I think the romance was a bit rushed in the middle without no real chemistry between the two main characters. Too angsty for my tastes. I love wild dialogues and dynamics between the two love interests, but that’s really subjective. 😅 If you’re more into "quiet" romances, this may be for you.THE BADThere was no any banter and dynamics and I don’t even get why they like each other romantically. Plus, to be honest, I thought it was really one-sided: only the girl was interested in the guy. Amun did not seem to be involved with her, which was a bit embarrassing to read 🤣.(it’s not instalove but there’s no natural transition) It’s like, in the middle of the book, after the climax, he SUDDENLY fell in love with Mehr only to further the story. Not organic at all! I took off two stars in this case rather than one because this is a fantasy-romance and I should care about this melodramatic couple,but I didn’t really much sadly. I personally like romances with banter and funny moments. I hope the romance in Arwa’s book will be better. Plus, I was not a fan of how the romance was bound to the plot (I explained that below) It was weird and creepy. I am not telling too much about that because it’s a spoiler. In addition, I don’t really know why this is not YA. There was nothing exclusively “adult” about this book and many YA follow more or less the same storyline of the unloved princess/heiress forced to marry a suitor and she has magical abilities and bla bla bla, she has to fight an evil spirit. This did not affect my rating. It’s just me questioning the marketing of the book. THE UGLY: SPOILERS Let’s be real, I did not like how Mehr’s virginity was used as a plot device. Just no. It is creepy and I think there can be better ideas to bound Mehr to the Maha than forcing her to have sex with her husband, like a wedding tattoo or another magical ritual, for example. I’m tired of those kinds of situations in fantasy books where women are oppressed/forced/manipulated into having sex with someone, or are sexually threatened when it is not necessary to the story. It is a fantasy world, not historical fiction, you can create better rules to bound Mehr to the Maha other than forcing her to have sex with a total stranger. Come on, female (&male authors as well) authors can do better than that. If her husband was not the love interest, it would have been rape. The husband did not forced her into anything, but now that Mehr decided to serve the Maha, she has to consume her marriage to Amun, her husband (who is his servant) in order to be submissive to the Maha. TO CONCLUDEPlus, I think this book missed the opportunity to be lush and more atmospheric. For example, for a Mughal-inspired Fantasy, the author could have written beautiful descriptions of the architecture of the temple and expand more about the Daeva mythology and history more. I think the mythological part of the story could have been deepened.Other than that, it is a standalone, what a delight!