Now a Goodreads Choice finalist in Fantasy!!I have put off writing this review for months, for no reason other than I was afraid of failing to fully and accurately explain R.F. Kuang’s newest work to people interested in reading it. So I hope you’ll forgive me for letting myself off the hook in a way—I’m not going to be covering the entirety of Babel in this single Goodreads review. As more people read their advance copies, I’m sure there’ll be a surplus of opinions to take into consideration before beginning this book, but I’m not going to attempt to take Rebecca’s place in telling this story. me being very chill about this book The first thing that I think potential readers should keep in mind is that this isn’t the kind of book you’d typically build a fandom around. It’s not a fantasy of dragons and swords, fairies and secret doors, but a tale of the monsters who built the world we all currently inhabit. It is a fantasy so deeply rooted in history and imperialism that it almost feels like it could have actually happened this way. So as much as we’ve all enjoyed the character art and mockups of beautiful special editions being passed around online, I just want to make sure everyone’s expectations are where they should be. If you’re here for ships and tropes that will go viral on TikTok and Instagram, you may end up disappointed. If it wasn’t obvious from full title, Babel, or The Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators' Revolution, you’re going to get a healthy helping of both the ‘Dark’ and ‘Academia’ portions of the genre. I’d also like to emphasize that Kuang goes well beyond an academic aesthetic setting, fully entrenching every aspect of the story deep within the bowels of academia. We get to see students rigorously study their specialized fields, but also the unsavory sides of this culture typically hidden from public view. The magic system is no exception to this rule, relying fundamentally on language, and specifically the act of translation. Lovers of literature, historians and linguists, both professionals and enthusiasts, will adore this aspect. It’s not a flashy kind of magic and deceptively simple in concept, which is why it lends so easily into an alternate history novel. The way it’s incorporated feels plausible, and the who and why this power is being sought, all too probable.Through our core four characters—Robin, Victoire, Ramiz, and Letitia—we bear witness to the day-to-day lives of institutional outsiders as they try to navigate a system inherently hostile to their presence but desperately in need of their skills and labor. There’s some obvious similarities between the author and the main character, Robin, but all four of them carry pieces of that misfit quality that will ring true for so many. What she ends up doing with each character separately and as a group is very clever, probing their blind spots and privileges in ways that will challenge the readers’ own complicities. Their interactions are at times encouraging, sometimes devastating, but always ring true. Fair warning, though, there will be moments that feel so honest that they’re likely to sting.I think the underlying emotion guiding the text is a steadily building rage. The number of quiet cruelties that the marginalized characters must absorb then set aside would be enough to drive most from pursuing this kind of educational tract, which is by design. In fact, if you’re reading Babel and you’re not angry, you’re doing it wrong. On the domestic political side, there’s a thoughtful examination of the labor movement of that era, interlaced with not-so-subtle remarks on the exploitive nature of capitalism. You can draw a number of parallels between the UK of this time period and the US currently, a comparison probably not lost on a Chinese American writer studying in England. What’s clear is that Rebecca’s time at Cambridge, Oxford, and later Yale greatly informed both her writing and perspective on the state of the world, particularly how it came to be this way. The result is a scathing indictment of British and European colonialism, including the rippling effects across continents; and it’s entirely deserved. Magic in this world is just another resource to be extracted from the poor by the powerful, and when those wells run dry they do what their real life counterparts did—embark to find and exploit other lands and people. But no amount of blood spent will ever be enough to satisfy their incessant thirst for more.If you’ve read Kuang’s previous Poppy War trilogy, you know what tone to expect. You cannot build a sustainable legacy on the broken backs of your fellow man. There’s no great twist of fate to save the day, just the relentless resistance of those who reach that breaking point. This is not a feel-good story, despite being an exceptional one. It’s a classic R.F. Kuang slow-march of inevitability—and absolutely perfect. Prepare yourself for brilliance. Prepare yourself for heartbreak. Prepare yourself for the triumph of Babel.**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!