I tried my very hardest to like this. I thought The Poppy War was excellent when I read it a few years ago, and Babel seemed like a combination of subjects I find fascinating and spent my own uni days immersed in-- history, language/linguistics, colonial studies --but in hindsight, I wonder if I might have found it better if I knew nothing about those subjects.Babel is set in Britain in the first half of the 1800s. A young Chinese boy is brought from Canton to London by a language professor and taught Latin, Greek and Chinese in preparation for his future studies at Babel-- Oxford University's Institute of Translation. In this alternate world enchanted silver is used to power the empire, and it is the careful application of language that enables silver's power to be harnessed. In short, it is about how colonial powers used language to control and profit from others.I almost gave up after the first 200 pages, but my partner had already read and liked the book so he convinced me to continue.My initial impression (true of the whole book, it turned out) was that it said an awful lot, repeated an awful lot, and still managed to be very basic in its examination of its themes and characters. The language/linguistics analysis is an overview of any beginner linguistics course. Anyone familiar with a rudimentary history of how languages have been shaped and changed over time will not find anything new here. Perhaps it will be more interesting to those who are unfamiliar with these subjects.To me, it felt very much like reading a textbook. Dry regurgitation of a linguistics or postcolonial lecture. The author uses Oxford as a setting and the later Industrial Revolution as a historical template, adding very little that was new to any of it. The protagonist, Robin, is a very passive unmemorable character, surrounded by characters who are either equally benign and forgettable, often serving as mouthpieces for what feel like jarringly modern views, or else one-dimensional EVIL imperialist racists. Where is the unique fantasy flair? Why are all the characters lacking in nuance?Each one of the footnotes spread throughout seems to exist to hammer the points over our head.Somehow, I finished it. Though I feel like I should have stuck with my initial gut feeling and not have bothered because my experience remained the same way throughout: forced, didactic conversations from one-dimensional characters; a basic history/language lesson; nothing to make this book stand out beyond its arresting cover.I adored the magic boarding school of The Poppy War just as much as the darker later chapters. I feel like school environments with young adults 16-25 can be extremely thrilling— hormones, jealousies, rivalries, ambitions, competition, clashes between differing personalities, but it is not so when the characters exist only to talk about academia and make the author's point for her. Here, they don't feel believable; they don't feel human. This book felt similar to Ninth House or a more basic version of The Secret History. Which is to say, unbearably dull.