****2022 Reread****I'm glad I read this again before diving into the sequel! I had forgotten a lot of the details. And the fact that this book feels so fast paced! A lot happens and I love it. One thing I noticed this time is the parallels between Csorwe and Shuthmili- two women who grow up in religions that try to curtail their choices and determine their life paths. At it's core, this book is about breaking free from those constraints and living the life that you choose. And it's a book that is casually queer- a lot of characters are queer in some way. I still love it and look forward to continuing with the series!*******************Well, I have found a new favorite fantasy novel! The Unspoken Name is a juggernaut of a debut and one I would commend to fans of high fantasy. In it, we follow an orc priestess named Csorwe who is to be the sacrificial bride of the god that she serves. Instead, she flees her destiny to become the assassin of a sorcerer. I don't want to say too much more about the plot because much of the fun is in its discovery, but there are twists and turns, expansive world-building, complex characters with well developed arcs, monsters, fight scenes, political intrigue, betrayal, queer romance, dying worlds, magic, gods, humor, morally gray characters, and much more. From the first couple of chapters, I knew this book had the potential to be a new favorite, and I can tell you this will definitely be making my best of 2020 lists. It held my attention all the way through with very solid pacing and periodic introduction of new characters and parts of the world that all come together quite nicely. The world is fascinating and thoughtfully put together, but the world-building is pretty seamlessly woven into the narrative, leaving you wanting to know more and simultaneously certain that the author knows what she's doing. Locations are vividly described, often unique, and have a sweeping cinematic feel. This would work incredibly well for film, television, or RPG video games. Also, this has a pronunciation guide, and I LOVE a pronunciation guide! Not only is it helpful, but it's also indicative of the thought and time that has gone into developing the primary races in this new universe and the differences in their language. I could go on and on, but you really should just go read it. It will be well worth it! In terms of queer representation, Csorwe is never labeled on the page, but is clearly bisexual or pansexual and does eventually develop a sapphic romantic connection. This relationship is relatively low-key and never takes over the plot, but it is a great slow-burn sort of romance. There are other queer side characters as well. I just loved this book for so many reasons and will be pushing it on people. Huge thanks to Tor for sending me an advance copy of this book for review. All opinions are my own, and I now need to go order myself a finished copy! I look forward to reading more from this author and I think we can expect her to be a significant player in the Fantasy genre.