Enjoyable but hard to recommend Let me start by saying that, overall, I did enjoy this book. However, there are some significant flaws with the story that makes it very hard to recommend. However, let’s start with what I loved. Firstly, The Unspoken Name is an incredibly imaginative and creative story. The world-building is crazy with multiple worlds, dead gods, spaceships and magic, making this feel like an epic fantasy set in a futuristic sci-fi world. Reading a fantasy book with such a unique setting felt incredibly refreshing. Throughout the story, the reader goes on a crazy journey to multiple worlds, which was exciting! Consequently, the overall plot was fascinating enough to keep me going. The Unspoken Name follows Csorwe, an orc destined to sacrifice herself to her God. However, when Csorwe is destined to die, Belthandras Sethennai – a magician/wizard – offers her a way out of her destiny. Sethennai offers Csorwe to become his assistant and help him retrieve the Reliquary, a powerful relic that gives the owner incredible knowledge. While the plot does get confusing at times, I found myself turning the pages to the very end! This book is so weird but in a good way (for the most part)!So why do I find it challenging to recommend this book? Firstly, this book has some significant pacing issues. The story has some considerable time jumps, making the plot feel disjointed. Larkwood sets up the plot and characters in the first 100 pages, but then we suddenly jump ahead several years. I didn’t start feeling a connection with the characters until around the 30% mark. Secondly, the plot gets overly complicated at times, and Larkwood does not do a thorough job of fleshing out the world. I frequently felt a bit lost and confused about why the characters were going to certain places. Third and lastly, Larkwood barely mentions that Csower is an orc. You start reading this story thinking we are following a human, but every once in a while, it is noted that Csorwe has tusks. Except for mentioning the tusks, Csorwe felt very humane, which I found weird.However, it has been three weeks since I finished The Unspoken Name, and for some reason, the story has stayed with me. I am actually looking forward to continuing this series and returning to this world. Therefore, I am giving this book a 3.5 / 5 star rating. However, I will not be recommending this book to many readers due to pacing issues, dense writing style and weird plot.Thanks to my Patreon's Erin, Blake, Mel and Áron Sofus.