The Unspoken Name is a book that understands that the way to my heart is to add as many unhinged immortal beings as you can possibly fit into a book. It has so many and I'm in love with each and every one of them[4.5 stars.]This is a difficult book to review, because I often didn't want to pick it up when I was in the middle of it, but now that I've finished it, I like it more the more I think about it. What I struggled with the most was the pacing, which is... strange. To make an example, there's a time jump of several years when you're 30% into the story, and several parts of the book feel more like a climax than the actual climax. However, I never want to give a lower rating to a book for taking a risk when it comes to structure; I think more books should try that! The issues are mostly on me for reading during exam season, something I should have avoided.There's something here that took me by surprise in a way that hasn't happened in a very long time, but did that happen because I was often too tired to pay attention while reading this? I don't know. I feel like I'm not doing this book justice, and I also feel like it would be really interesting to reread, so I should definitely do that someday.But, even if it weren't for that, the surprising thing is exactly the kind of development that made me fall in love with The Unspoken Name, so I guess that in the end it doesn't matter too much. I'm just here for how dramatic this novel knows how to become. And it's a funny book in which the sense of humor works for me!The Unspoken Name is a story about Csorwe, an Oshaaru (basically an orc! She even has tusks and I think that's great) Chosen Bride who escapes being sacrificed to the god of her world, the Unspoken. What follows is a story about faith and loyalty and the breaking thereof, and about finding yourself outside of the shadow of gods.I really liked how the romance fit into this: Csorwe and Shuthmili - who is by the way as cute as she's terrifying - find common ground because they're both girls who are dealing with the repercussion of being raised in and escaping a cult that would see them, though in different ways, as sacrifices.There's also a lot to say about the side characters. Oranna and Sethennai stole the show half of the time, but it's very difficult to get a hold on who they really are, because what Csorwe says about them in her narration doesn't necessarily match what the book shows. It makes for some interesting dissonance, and also makes you understand a lot more about Csorwe herself. Anyway, Oranna and Sethennai were probably my favorite characters in the book purely for how unnecessarily dramatic they were, and the whole situation was a trainwreck. Then there's Tal, who seems from reviews to be a reader's favorite, but to be honest I kind of... forgot he existed a lot of the time (...the one thing I have in common with Sethennai? :/ Sorry Tal). I don't really know why, given that he's also very dramatic. Not horrible enough, probably! I liked reading how his dynamic with Csorwe developed through the story, however.The only true negative for me was the atmosphere, or how surprisingly weak it was. This is a space portal fantasy with terrifying divinities and cults, which has so much potential as a setting - and I loved it for that! More books that understand how the distinction between fantasy and sci-fi is made up and unnecessary - but I don't think it fully went there. Maybe Csorwe is the wrong character to have that kind of descriptions? I don't know. Once we were out of the House of Silence I often couldn't get a sense of setting, with few exceptions.