I was sent this book as an advance copy by the publisher via NetGalley for reviewing purposes, but all opinions are my own.Coming up with a way to first introduce The Unspoken Name in a review is, at the very least, complicated. This is a novel with many layers and many aspects that cohabit peacefully with one another, and to put focus on one before the others would be to build wrongful expectations for what is the end result....and there I tricked you by giving you what I feel like should be the first thing to keep in mind when going into this novel. If you expect it to be fantasy more than scifi, or plot more than characters, or characters more than plot, or relationships more than characters, then you'll end up expecting something this novel isn't.Keeping that in mind, now we can move on and talk about the different aspects!The first thing I realized I liked about this book was the writing. I will admit it does feel like a debut novel but like, in a good way that makes me want to read the author's future books and see how she improves based on what I already know she does well. I personally love when authors don't force-feed you information about characters' intentions and feelings/reactions at any given moment but let you understand it from the context and what you already know about them. I think this aspect was excellent and it had sometimes hilarious, sometimes powerful effects in moments that would have been spoiled by an overly detailed description. I also think each character's voice was very distinct and immediately recognizable. Speaking of which, I think characters and relationships are where this book truly shined for me. Amidst a lot of plot and action, these characters bleed through the pages and you absorb them slowly, as you would with a real person. By the end they all felt real in a way that doesn't always happen with fantasy, and I truly Felt for their relationships.The romantic aspect was really enjoyable but to be honest, not my favorite part. It was, I guess, just not as present as I usually like it to be, but I do feel that the sapphic (!!!!) relationship was very naturally built up and cute. I was also under the wrong impression (I don't remember if because of reviews or why) that there would also be a side m/m romance but there is not (if you've read it and see a romance in That...I really don't know what to tell you), and I would like to add: thank the Nine Gods. I don't think there's anyone here who's allocishet but anyway there are like: three confirmed mlm characters (at least one of them is bi/pan) and three wlw ones. The plot was intriguing and I was never bored. I do think it had some pacing issues, not something that necessarily always bothered me (for example, I love when it got a little slower for the sake of showing us certain characters and relationships), but it did make things a little weird in a couple of points. If you're someone who cares a lot about plot and pacing, you might notice and care about this more than I did.The worldbuilding is so unique and I'm not even going to pretend like I've understood how things work well enough to be able to talk about them but basically it's a fantasy + scifi setting in which together with more high fantasy elements we also have uhh,, space (?) ships and you can jump between worlds. So, would I recommend this? Absolutely! If you're into adult fantasy and/or casually queer (sapphic!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) books then this one is for you. And I'm really looking forward to the next book (by the way, this book can be a standalone because it has an arc that's fully resolved by the end, which is even more reason to give it a try!), hoping it will follow Tal (my favorite character tbh).TWs: human & animal sacrifices, violence, gore, drug use, death, alcohol, self mutilation