Buddy read with Ikenna “Life is for the living, happiness for the taking.”The Shadow of the gods is a Norse book set in a world where the gods battled and kill themselves some hundreds of years ago, the world now lives in the shadow of what happened. The descendants of the gods and anyone that have magic are kept are slaves and most of their masters threat them badly which is sad. All the gods are dead except one who is a dragon and was imprisoned by the other gods before they died. They are also strange creatures in this which I adore, the creatures are called Vaesen, a general name for them all, one is called a tennur and the creatures are not only sentient but can talk. “Strange, how we revert to the behaviour of our childhood, when back in the presence of our family.”This book features lots of things that I love in fantasy, there is friendship, vengeance, well depicted battle scenes, amazing dialogue and great characters, what more is there to ask for.The world building is out of this world, especially a place where the characters live in the carcass and bone of a dead giant snake, how creepy is that. The book is written in the POV of three characters, Orka, Elvar and Varg. “Courage is being scared of a task and doing it anyway.”I love Orka so much, she is a mother, a mother bear, most of her previous life is unknown but from the glimpses we’ve gotten it wasn’t easy, she made it out and this happens. She is brave, clever and has a heart.Varg is a former slave who is on a path to avenge his sister, he was lucky to meet The Bloodsworn( a mercenary group) who helped him. He became fast friends with its members due to the fact that he is good and loyal. “Please take it, before your mood infects me and I cut my own throat.”“In that case, don’t eat the cheese,” Røkia said to Varg, nudging him with her elbow as she slopped cold porridge into her own bowl. “This could be the answer to my dreams.” She gave Svik a cold smile.”I’m not sure how I feel about Elvar, she sounds like a spoilt brat, I like the fact that she is willing to make a name for herself, but she is doing it in the wrong places, I hope she changes her priorities in book two. She is a member of The Battle Grim, a group of warriors you captured and sells Tainted people(descendants of the gods) to the highest bidder.Other interesting characters are Glornir, Rokia, Thorkel, Svik, Breca, Mord and Lif.The story follows the Orka, Varg and Elvar, the story seems disjointed at first, I kept wondering what it’s all about and how the characters will come together and I love what I got.