Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions to reading fantasy books as soon as I finish the book.A mind-blowingly epic book introducing an entirely new universe from John Gwynne - it doesn't get much better than this!The Shadow of the Gods is a brand new world for John Gwynne, who previously has written 7 books set in the same world in the two series The Faithful and the Fallen and Of Blood and Bone. That story is done, and if you haven't read it yet I urge you to go give it a shot. I wasn't quite sure what to expect here in this new world, but am pleasantly shocked that it somehow seems to improve upon the previous books, which were already close to perfection.Story: 5/5The story sucks you in within the first few pages. It introduces a fantasy viking world that is far more grim than his previous books, with the characters trying to do everything they can to survive in this darker world. It's a tale of gods who have been long dead, but are stirring back to life - of an epic revenge quest from a character who has a mysterious past - of savage bands of mercenary warriors who are equal parts brutal and compelling - and of a fractured political structure in this world that is quickly consolidating into major regional powers. Every part of this book is compelling, with plenty of shocking twists along the way, and which culminates in over-the-top fashion (as per usual for John Gwynne books). And the battles, which Gywnne is the best in the world at writing, are once again given in abundance and each unique and exciting. World Building: 5/5This is how world building should be. It vividly describes this world and you can just see yourself right there going through these events with the characters. Gwynne does a masterful job at painting these pictures early on and making things truly unique from his previous series. It feels like a unique take on viking mythology, which each location visited feeling different and fun in it's own way. I got lost in this world immediately and didn't want to leave, which is the hallmark for every great fantasy world.Fantasy Elements: 4/5The fantasy elements of this book, while present throughout the book, didn't really start to pop off until the tail end of the book. There is much said about the fantasy elements that happened in the past, and you are left as the reader in wonder about how things used to be. There is some sprinkling of a soft magic system, with some fun fantasy creatures that take the journey with one of the characters - but the ending of this book it ramps it up to 11. I suspect in the next book this will very clearly get a 5/5, but it's no quite there in this one due to how long it took to get properly introduced.Characters: 5/5As has been true for every John Gwynne book, the characters are where things really shine more than everything else. There are no "Sansa Stark" POVs here, where you regret seeing the name pop up when starting a new chapter. While there are only 3 major POVs, they are unique, compelling, and you can't wait to read more about these characters. Not once did I get upset about a chapter ending, because I knew that whatever was coming next was going to be just as good as what I had just got done reading.Writing Style: 5/5John Gwynne has a formula that works incredibly well in my opinion. He allows things to start at a slow pace, while working towards an epic conclusion, and random jumps in action to keep the pacing flowing at a wonderful rate. Things don't ever feel to slow, and they never feel to fast. He's not writing things with wonderful prose, but instead writing in a way that makes everything incredibly clear to the reader so that you can paint the image of the book in your mind with great detail. He excels most with action sequences, which often can be disjointed when written by other authors, but here they are done absolutely perfectly.Enjoyment: 5/5I flew through this book in a few days due to how fun everything was. I had a huge smile on my face throughout reading, and I can't remember the last time I had such a great time reading a first book in a series.