#1 Nevernight ★★★★★#2 Godsgrave ★★★★★#3 Darkdawn ??? If Vengeance has a mother, her name is Patience.I don't even know how to start this review. I think I could honestly just write several paragraphs of assorted expletives and shocked/devastated/adoring/amused/enraged/amazed emojis, and it would get the same point across, really. This book is everything I hoped it would be and so much more, and I don't know how I'll ever recover from the traumatizing glory that is this series.
The storm begs no forgiveness of the drowned.
Mia Corvere. My sweet, angry, wounded little Crow. I love her so much, on so many different levels and for endless reasons, and she put me through hell in this installment, but I enjoyed every moment of it. Every move she makes is so calculated and brilliant, and I could honestly spend thousands of pages just watching the wheels in her head turn. My heart broke a million times over for her during these chapters, and it's brutal to know that this book was probably nothing compared to what the finale will bring.
“You can keep the glory. I'm just here for the blood.”
And the story and pacing in this one! Many trilogies assuredly suffer from the infamous "Middle Book Syndrome", but this is not one of them. If I thought I was on the edge of my seat during Nevernight, that was nothing. Once Godsgrave gets rolling, it brings with it such a whirlwind of action and bloodshed and ruin, you positively can't look away. Despite a terrible reading slump delaying me during the first 20% or so of this book, I think I flew through the last 80% in a few days because it was all I could think about and I found myself reaching for more in every possible free moment I had.
“Our scars are just gifts from our enemies... Reminding us they weren't good enough to kill us.”
And finally, the romance in this one. If you don't know anything about it, I won't be the one to spoil you, but what a roller coaster. I was spoiled for this particular pairing ages ago, and went into this book wondering how on earth I could possibly root for these characters together, but by the time it came to fruition, I was just as invested as everyone told me I'd be. And Mia's queer rep and questioning? It was everything, watching her slowly piece together why she found herself so fascinated with other women. As another bisexual woman who didn't admit it to myself out until my late teens (hello, Mia, I see you ♥), her journey and realization resonated so soundly with me, I might have even shed a few happy tears. (Thank you, Jay, for telling the story of so many queer ladies like me and Mia, and telling it so damn well.)
“That’s Fear talking. Never listen to him. Fear is a coward.”
There's so much more I want to say, but it would all just be redundant at this point, friends. Let me just say that as far as I'm concerned, this is one of the greatest series ever written, and I can't imagine ever losing the feeling of utter amazement at how beautifully crafted this story, these characters, and this world is. I want to dive right into Darkdawn, and when that's over, I want to start the whole series over — again, and again, and again.