I am..................................... how do you say............................. ShookWith so many insane plot reveals I had trouble keeping track, a really great slow burn romance, and the most excellent lead character, this book kind of killed my soul. It’s a sequel, so we’ll split this up into sections. Let’s talk!
→ theme work ←
Aaaaaah, this was so great. I think this book was more focused on the fact that every single person is the hero of their own story. In the first half, I was thinking this book really could have done more with the discussion of slavery - like, come on - but the second half DOES that shit far better than I was expecting. 
→ writing ←
I think the thing that saves the writing of this book for me is that it feels like it’s laughing at itself. I can feel the dilapidated, possibly soulless ghost of Jay Kristoff laughing at himself as he types these ridiculous words, and I sort of love it. Every weird sentence is a reminder that this story has a narrator, a sarcastic and slightly pretentious narrator whose identity we still do not know. 
→ plot and twists ←
This one started sort of slow but it ended brilliantly. This series has a lot of battle scenes - trust me, I get it if you need to skip sections due to gore etc, I get it. The plot reveals are the best - um, my favorite was the backstory reveal and the way that worked thematically. I am so fucking sorry that I cannot say anything more than that.also, me an uncomfortable amount of times during this book: 
→ characters ←
Miaaaaaa. I adore Mia as a character so much and I would read the series for her alone. She is such a complex and compelling antihero with such a complex and nuanced arc. I never know if she’s going to swerve evil or good, but I know I’m desperately invested in who she becomes. 
I love that she does evil things with good intentions and toes that line.

→ romance ←
Ash and Mia are the GREATEST. They have this friends-to-enemies-to-lovers slow-burn dynamic I basically adore. Uh… yeah. I really love the juxtaposition of them to other romantic relationships as being far healthier, even though they’re both literal assassins?
→ more thoughts ←
The cissexism is really bothersome? I mean, it feels like every two chapters there’s some mention of vaginas vs. dicks and like… I get that you like being Gritty and Dark, but what am I reading. I also think occasionally the Grittiness overpowers the plot. Which I dislike. That part is bad and I dislike it. 
→ enjoyment factor ←
I don't even know, guys, these are just so addicting. I always have trouble getting into the beginning but from there, I just enjoy every second I spend reading these. This book took a while to get started, but once it got going, it became a straight-up [gay-up] masterpiece of plot twists and of character development. And I adore it. and, to end this all off:
→ spoilery theories, look away now ←
there’s some narrative of the fall of Ashkahi Empire, the crown of the moon, and the monstrosities left behind being connectedMia being able to summon Sand Krackens is going to be super relevant. I KNOW thisBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube