“When you take a person out of the world, you don't just take them, do you? You take everything they were, too.”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️A short summary of what happens in the book: Sex and murder (yes, at the same time), fight, train, Gladiatii, kill, fight, train, murder, sex, intrigues, fight, murder, surprise, kill, fight and brutal plot twists.That left me like this:Whereas the first book was concentrated in the school for killing (that’s my personal name for it...) this book played in the arenas of the gladiatii. All in all this is a masterpiece! Brilliant. Jay Kristoff is a genius for writing and creating this story! Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️So much lovable characters in this one! I mean... they’re all killers but kind of lovable? Do I sound crazy? Probably. Is it still true? Yes. Starting with my favorite killer in the world: talented blade, bisexual bomb and super badass Mia. She’s so skilled and intelligent. All the thoughts and emotions she felt made her so real and human. Next are her awesome partners in crime lurking in the shadows. Mr. Kindly and Eclipse. I said it once, I say it again: can I have darklin powers and followers aka friends like those two? I mean, yes, they don’t get along well, but the “fights” they have are absolutely hilarious and I loved them for it.But if anyone ever asked me which one is my favorite, it’ll always be Mr. Kindly. Because, duh, a cat. A shadow cat. Absolutely-freakin-awesome. Next is Furian: I wasn’t sure about him if I’m truly honest. He was a little bit interesting but the major part of it I felt like he was just a part of the book the author needed to put in there. Buuuuut... That’s just my opinion. Sid: This fluffy big mouth guy was one of my favorites. As soon as he showed his real face he was the absolute best with his humor, his stupid words and kind heart. All the other characters were created in a really brilliant way, because it didn’t matter how small their role was: if they died or were killed I was really sad about it... World ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️When I first met Mia in Nevernight I was really intrigued by the talent or power that made Mia a darklin. I was always fascinated by shadows, darkness. They do have a huge power in the world. Just look at the Darkling in the shadow and bone series. He was pretty powerful. But this Darklin-power is different. It has some positive sides but also negative sides. In the end the universe is in balance, right? Next to these awesome powers there are beasts that sound like the worst nightmare ever and people that make you really uncomfortable.In the world of the gladiatii There is only one way to earn your freedom. Kill everyone in the magni and survive as the last one standing. Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Oh well. This was one hot thing. All the tension, all the heat, all the passion, (all the hatred). I knew it would end in some way. I hoped it would be a good way. And oh my good, guys, smut scenes. Puh-huh. Get some ice cream because the scenes in this book are smoking hot! Also... the friendships made my heart feel some things and my face smile. Even if you need to kill for a living, when you’re surrounded by the same people for months, in some way they start to be your family. Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The most important thing first: People who hate curse-filled-books should probably leave this book in the bookstore shelf and never touch it. Because this one is filled with heavy language. And you know what? I loved it. It’s some fresh air in a normally really organized and strict book writing factory. Also: Jay Kristoff writes really good fighting-/killing-/love making-scenes. And he’s definitely a master in plot twists! So. Definitely one of my favorite series of all time! So addictive and different. Read it!