You should read this if you like:  murder, stabbings, multiple murder via stabbings, devious girls, assassins, Hogwarts School of Assassins, bisexual protagonists, sexy times, murder during sexy times, multiple plot twists, adrenaline rush that feels kind of like a heart attack, shadow cats, shadow wolves, way too much sarcasm, and more stabbings.  I’m going to preface this review with a little note about Jay Kristoff. I love him, I really do. He is one of my current favorite YA authors and on a very short list of authors I would love to meet in person someday. His books are always fantastic, with their badass heroines, impossible quests, snarky banter, and lots of action. A Kristoff book is one that’s bound to be chock full of metaphors and melodrama. And above all else, they are always, always entertaining.  Which is why I tend to buy and binge read them the day they are released. And you know what? Sleep deprivation riding on an adrenaline high is, ideally, the best state in which to read his books. Everything feels so much more epic and urgent; it’s all one big adrenaline rush from start to finish. Down in one shot like fine whiskey, burning all the way to the end. The plot: One of the reasons I was so freaking excited about this book was because of the way things were left off in book one. It seemed to me that by murdering someone not assigned by the Red Church, Mia had summarily cut her ties to them and was now free to go off into the world and seek revenge. I was very interested to see to see where things would go from there. And boy, the first half of this book not disappoint. We start off with bloody murder, with our heroine smack dab in the middle of things with her revenge plot well underway. From then, we weave back and forth between the present and the past, in what is one of my favorite narrative styles, as we try to piece together the events that lead Mia to this point in the story. This aspect of Kristoff’s writing is something that I really love. He masterfully parallels both narratives in such a way that the stakes in one timeline is informed and then intensified by events in the other. It’s some really stuff right there! In fact, everything leading up to the first half of the book, is pretty damn epic! It’s only in the second half that the plot starts to go downhill. At the end of Nevernight, there is still so much we don’t know about Mia and where her powers originate from. I had hoped Godsgrave would answer some of these questions. And yet, beyond a couple mentions of Mia’s power in the beginning and some cryptic hints at the very end, the book doesn’t address any of the questions I had regarding Mia’s powers. The main plot of Godsgrave is set up for some gladiator style hunger games which gives Mia plenty of opportunities to bloody things up. This is the first time that Mia has been alone and without (many) allies and it was very entertaining to watch her plan things out as she goes. One of the best things about her character is that for all her badassery she is not infallible; something that we are constantly reminded of in this book. Despite being an assassin of the Red Church, she is not automatically proficient in all fighting techniques no is she the best at defense; which makes sense since the acolytes of the Red Church are basically thieves and murderers and only know basic fighting techniques in case they need to fight their way out when on a job. Therefore, Mia learning the Gladiatii style of combat and merging it with her own cunning and intellect was one of the plot highlights. The fights themselves were very creative and reminiscent of the one between The Mountain and Oberyn from Game of Thrones. However, I soon started losing interest as they started to get repetitive and seemed to drag on forever! There was so much of the fighting going on when all I could think of was that it’s a waste of time better spent learning more about her powers and how to use them. Characters: Speaking of powers, I was actually very excited to learn there was someone else who shared Mia’s powers. Furian started off as a potentially strong character. To learn that he has chosen to shun his powers thinking them abhorrent, instead of using them like Mia, was such an intriguing concept. And yet, we get nothing substantial out of his character. Furian spends the whole book alternating between a red herring love interest and a colossal pain in the ass! So much time is spent hammering on Mia and Furian’s lust/hate relationship. And yet, his only real purpose in the book is to serve as a foil for Mia. Which would have been very interesting had we gotten to explore their diverging ideologies, moralities, or motives and how that shapes their characters and relationships with the people around them. I wanted reluctant friendships! Barring that, I wanted begrudging acceptance of the other’s ways. At the very least, I wanted training montages! But instead, we get disapproving Furian who, by the way, is one half of the most annoying characters in this damn book! He spends the entire book glaring daggers at Mia and fuming in disapproval or reproaching her character. I get it. Mia’s not a good person. But damn it, if she isn’t a billion times more interesting than Furian! Which is not to say that I don’t want people disapproving of our protagonist. She’s an assassin! Of course someone needs to question her character. I want to see Mia being questioned and prodded and poked at. I want her to question her own intentions. Especially in light of the reveal about Mia’s family, which I thought was an excellent plot twist. I want to see that Mia be the lowest of the low and still somehow find a way to redeem herself to the readers. What I don’t want is to root for Mia at the cost of someone else’s character development. Make me like Mia, by making her flawed; by making her human. Not by making everyone else around her turn out to be a complete moron! This happens not just in Furian’s case, but also for Donna and Arkades. All three of these characters start off very strong, driven characters. All three of them are later revealed to be weak, pathetic, fools driven my childish motives and love/lust for the other. Donna is a spoiled brat seeking revenge on her father with no means of actually accomplishing them. She talks big and yet her actions make her seems very silly and indecisive. Arkades, on the other hand, had the potential to actually be a good teacher for Mia. And yet, he’s reduced to a foolish old man brought low by love for his mistress. Also, can we stress that she was just a child when he began to have “feelings” for her??? Any respect I had for his character just disappeared for me after that. The only characters I actually liked in Godsgrave were the other Gladiatii, specially Sid, and Mia’s interaction with them. Although at one point toward the end everyone pretty much started sounding the same. And of course, Mr. Kindly and Eclipse (although can Eclipse please stop calling Mr. Kindly “moggy”?? It sounds pretty ridiculous and I hate it. Up your diss game Eclipse!).  Sexuality: Mia’s bisexuality and subsequent relationship with Ashlinn was actually done pretty well. I like how complex their relationship is and especially in light of the fact that Ash betrayed and then killed Mia’s former lover in book 1. However, despite how complex their relationship is, it is believable and happens quite organically. Moreover, Mia’s love for one does not automatically lessen her love for Tick. They are just two very different relationships between people who have undergone a lot of change in the past year and emerged from that as very different people. I could’ve done without those needlessly long sex scenes though. Less believable was the reveal about Mia’s father. Unlike the reveal about Mia’s mother’s character, where the twist was kind of hinted at in Nevernight, this one seemed a little out of nowhere. In the end, it seemed a little like unnecessary drama added in for pure shock value. I wish they had explained the idea of sexuality more in terms of world building. I’m still unclear about the stance on sexuality taken up in Mia’s world; it’s never really mentioned how people of the LGBTQ community are treated here. Are people of all sexual orientations treated equally? Are there prejudices in place against non-heteronormative individuals? From what I have seen so far, sexuality doesn’t seem to be much of a big deal in this world. Whether you are bisexual like Mia or gay like her father, everyone just seems to roll with it. World building: I have always been very fascinated with ancient Roman culture so the world building works for me. The Gladiatii match on Chariots was a particularly good touch as it showcased how much of this world is influenced by Roman culture. The games were underscored with a sense of dread and desperation; the slaves performing like animals at the circus, highlighting the barbaric nature of the people in power. But slavery itself is not fully explored, despite it being one of the main issues in Godsgrave. Slave culture not fully explored. We are constantly told, rather than shown, that slavery is an issue in Godsgrave; that the master’s exert complete control over their slaves and disobedience is severely punished. And yet, Mia often breaks those rules. She not only talks back to her Donna, but goes so far as to advise, reproach, and even order her around on one occasion. And yet, no punishment is ever doled out for Mia (save for that one time in the beginning). I can understand that since Mia is not a slave, obedience is not something she’s used to. But for the Donna to let her treat her that way seems questionable. It's a bit of a plot-hole that wasn't executed particularly well. Writing: I generally enjoy Kristoff’s overly dramatic writing style. He has a flair for melodrama and for writing some really good action sequences. There are two standout instances of this in Godsgrave: one, which I already mentioned earlier, was the way he experiments with time in the beginning of the book. The second, is the way in which Kristoff draws parallels while narrating the story. We saw some really beautiful writing in the first chapter of Nevernight when Mia’s sexual encounter is paralleled with her first murder. In Godsgrave, we see the same style of writing when Kristoff describes both Mia and Furian’s having sex with their respective partners, mirroring each other’s actions and dialogues while simultaneously bringing out the contrast between the two couples. It’s beautifully done in both books, and is something that I particularly enjoy about Kristoff’s writing. That and the excess metaphors, I kind of miss them now that Kristoff has toned it down in this book. I do think Kristoff tends to get a bit over dramatic at times. Especially with some of Donna’s high handed manner of speaking that just grated on my nerves. Or maybe that was just her character. But those are minor complaints since I really do enjoy his writing. Overall, 4 stars as I liked this book despite all my criticisms. It is still a vastly entertaining novel and Kristoff's writing keeps you on the edge of your seat, makes it hard to put this book down. I just did not enjoy it as much as Nevernight.