Alas. Grace of Kings breathes Chinese mythology into the modern epic fantasy -- a worthy cause. But for me, I found this book to be a mythology with no grandeur, and an epic with no gravity.It also suffered from constant speedbumps, painstakingly recorded for your amusement and edification at the end of this review. But here's the overview:It's a story of rebellion against a callous empire. And it's a story about power - who has it; how to get it; how to keep it; and at what price it will come. The two central characters are Kuni, a commoner with his ear to the people, and Mata, a ferocious warrior groomed from childhood for pure vengeance. But we stray from these characters frequently - the book is structured as more of a mosaic, with smaller tales interspersed at every turn. It's an ambitious structure, which gives the book an unusual feel and tone. And it's one of several devices aimed to make the book feel halfway a fable, or folklore, or myth.The problem is that myth is built on tremendous resonance - and for me, Grace of Kings has none. Indeed, it's downright discordant - full of snags and bumps that make no sense at all, except as arbitrary decrees of author fiat and artifice.So it is, for example, that Kuni and Mata meet, and immediately we are told that they become the fastest of brothers. But they never actually do anything very brotherlike. They never even seem to get along (and indeed, they have every reason not to). The only way in which their brotherhood is displayed is that occasionally, one or the other (or both) will announce how close and brotherly they are. So when, in a later act, tensions begin to rise between the two, the book seems to treat this as a cataclysmic tragedy. Whereas I the reader say, "Ummmm, yeah."In truth, the entire characterization of our two protagonists suffers the same flaw. We're told that Kuni is daring, compassionate, and inspiring - but reading what he actually says and does, he mostly seems like an over-romantic loafabout who happens to be infallible when convenient for the author. And we're told that Mata is admired and respected by all - but from the text, it's very hard to see what anybody sees in him. Here's a character who apparently likes Mata very much: She did like Mata, liked his awkward, stiff demeanor; his sincere, unadorned speech; his open face that could not hide how he felt. She even saw his faults in a forgiving light: his hot temper, his fragile pride, his overweening sense of honor. Now, read that and tell me true - does any of that actually sound attractive? Awkward and stiff and a hot temper he can't hide? What a catch!It is as though, knowing he is writing grand myth, the author feels free from the constraints of logic and literature, and expect us to unquestionably accept anything he pronounces. This lets him stage grand battles and foul betrayals with great economy; the problem is, they feel hollow and forced. This problem repeats itself in so many ways, shapes and forms: in characterization; in plot twists; in battle sequences. I jotted down some reactions as I read, so you can see how many speed bumps and WTF moments I ran up against (scroll down to the status updates). The reader is continually expected to accept conclusions that just don't follow from the build-up. The cruelest cut of all is that this should be true at the thematic level as well. Liu's writing is heavily concerned with moral, ideological, and political issues - but by waiving any commitment to plausible cause and effect, any statement he tries to make rings hollow.Liu is trying to cover complex territory and shades of gray. It's a novel about rebellion against a cruel oppressor, but it isn't a story of mere bravery and glory. It's about how power corrupts; about how noble causes can be brought low by individual opportunism or fracticiousness; about how a ruler who ignores the well-being of his people must come to regret abusing their trust. But a ruler can't be saintly and pure either; there come times when truly horrendous acts are necessary.Liu does a very good job of setting up these themes and tensions. Indeed, any hundred pages of Liu's should convince any sane reader that responsible leadership is an out-and-out impossibility. The only one who doesn't seem convinced is Liu himself - who showers Kuni with success, victory, and moral vindication, no matter how far-fetched or unearned this result may be. Kuni doesn't make mistakes (although sometimes other people make mistakes for him). When something morally questionable needs to be done, it's other people making the suggestion and other people making the call that, yes, this atrocity is really necessary. If he's ever at any risk of that whole business of being corrupted by power -- you know, that central thing the book's about -- then Kuni just shrugs it off and decides to not be corrupted by power instead. Easy!It's back to the same problem: Liu's writing in broad strokes, and he is telling us that Kuni is heroic, capable, and good, without showing us that he's actually so. And instead of showing us somebody coping the the impossible conflicts of leadership, he just tells us that Kuni copes with them; every last blessed one of them. So Grace of Kings presents itself as navigating through the murky waters of power and war. But in fact, all we see is Kuni blithely overcoming hardship after hardship, because the deck's stacked solidly in his favor. The book lays out a formidable minefield, and then dances its protagonist right through it. Some may find that inspiring; I can't see it as anything more than false hope and wishful thinking.Should I Read This Book?Grace of Kings has gained quite a bit of acclaim already; obviously, this review is only my own opinion, and you might enjoy it a lot more than I did.I would say you're likely to enjoy this book if you're familiar with Chinese culture and mythology; if you're a fan of a wide range of Liu's short fiction; if you enjoy epic power struggles on the national level, more than the personal; or if you enjoy trying out unusual writing styles. On the other hand, I would be very leery of comparisons to Game of Thrones or other familiar epic fantasy; this is a very different sort of beast, which you're likely to find deeply unsatisfying in that capacity.What I will say is: If you're debating, read the preview at Amazon. It's an excellent representation of the book's tone and style. If you love it, great. If that doesn't wow you, then rest assured, it is not going to get better.Further ReadingIf you aren't sick of me already, you can see the reactions I jotted down while reading. Scroll down below the review, to the status updates. There's no better description of my reading experience than seeing exactly what I experienced while reading. And in this case I frequently get ranty, which is probably amusing.Below, under the spoiler tag, I wrote a kind of case study about Kikomi - one of the characters and arcs in the book I found most infuriating. It's kind of a companion piece to this review, because I take a specific, limited chunk of the story and explain why it didn't work for me. Like, really really really didn't work for me.----A Few Words About KikomiKikomi is presented to us as a tragic figure: because she is the princess of Amu, and a beautiful one, her nation has cast her as their symbol of perfection and beauty, and made into a living ornament. And she has one more defining trait: an immense loyalty to her people; a desire to serve and protect them - at whatever cost to her self. Truly, she is a noble soul, cruelly wronged. And her chapters had me spitting nails.It was a cliché for a beautiful woman to complain about being cursed with beauty, Kikomi knew, but just because it was a cliché didn't mean it wasn't true, for her.It's not the use of the "I'm only valued for my beauty" cliché I'm objecting to. It's that it was used so very, very poorly. What we have here is that simultaneously, the entirety of Amu thinks Kikomi is doing something very very important, and at the same time, Kikomi thinks that she is doing nothing at all.There are a million ways to explain why Kikomi sees her role so entirely differently than every single other person in her nation (the nation which, I remind you, holds her undying love and loyalty). Unfortunately, the novel doesn't bother to suggest any. It's taken entirely for granted that a whole nation is really invested in keeping Kikomi miserable for absolutely no reason. The closest we get is an attempt to explain the purpose of Kikomi's ornamental role:"You're a symbol of the revival of Amu," her granduncle, King Ponadomu, said. "Of all the Tiro states, we have always been known for our dedication to the essence of civilization, of grace and refinement. Being beautiful is the most important thing you can do for the nation, Kikomi. No one else can remind the people of our ideals, our self-image, and our goddess as well as you."That's the rationale.Is it a good rationale? A bad rationale? Kikomi never responds to it. Let me repeat that, because it might not be entirely clear: Princess Kikomi has no reaction whatsoever to the justification her people provide for why her life needs to be miserable and pointless.This is the very definition of hollowness. Grace of Kings does not bother building up enough background and culture to actually justify the value it claims Amu places on Kikomi's beauty. It just tells us "It's really really important to them."It doesn't bother building up Kikomi's character, to explain why she's so different then the entire culture surrounding her. It just tells us "She's really really miserable."This is not a real society; this is not a real person. This is not even real sexism and oppression - which are deep-rooted, self-renewing, and provide tangible value and privilege to its beneficiaries. No; this is the Idiot Plot of gender politics - Idiot Sexism, where an entire society unites to make one woman miserable for no reason besides that the plot needs it.Kikomi's story continues beyond this starting point, but not well, I'm afraid. A goddess comes and makes some speeches on women's power which falls squarely into the "As You Know, Bob" category. Then she tells Kikomi what to do next, because heaven forfend Kikomi should come up with an action plan herself; it's not like we just spent a whole chapter explaining how capable she'd probably if she only had the opportunity. Then that doesn't work and somebody else gets Kikomi under his thumb, and now he gets to tell her what to do. Then she goes along with that well and obediently, getting herself in position for a month or more. Then, in the instant between murdering a man and being discovered, she comes to the sudden epiphany that she's been played all along. Good timing there, Princess!This has been a long rant on one very specific element, but I took the time to delve into it because it exemplifies my experience of the entire book. The book is deeply invested in Kikomi as a tragic character; in discussing sexism and women's position in society; and also in a plotline of intrigue and seduction. But it just doesn't get any of them off the ground. They're too superficial, too easy, too damned convenient to have any weight at all.Ambition is a fine thing, and it shouldn't be forgotten that this is Liu's first novel. But I don't remember the last time I read a book that failed so completely at its own basic goals.