I am somewhat conflicted by this book. On the one hand it has some fantastic world building and a fast paced story. On the other hand the characters felt very undeveloped and descriptions suffered from too much telling, not enough showing. In the end I decided on three stars for much the same reason I gave Name of the Wind: it felt like lots of yummy, but ultimately empty, calories (albeit with a much, much, much less aggravating protagonist).So first the good, namely the world building. The world and culture of this book are very much modeled on the ancient dynastic Chinese societies: autocratic government with an emperor at the top and nobles below, heavy emphasis on filial duty, academies of learning that revere ancient teachers of proper governing and moral principles, the importance of seating positions in social interactions. A criminally underused cultural influence that I always find fascinating to explore. Liu does a wonderful job exploring the various nooks and crannies of the world. Even though there is really just one big island with some smaller ones around it, different areas have their own cultures. Liu also explores the cultural assumptions and how they affect governmental policy:"Treason was a taint in the blood, and a traitor's sin was borne by the whole family.This belief resulted in a policy of punishing the family of those who are punished for treason. For the old Emperor this resulted in widespread resentment and resistance. But it also reflects the prevailing cultural view that there was an intrinsic quality to an individual's blood. The nobles were inherently better and it was right that they ruled. Liu does an very good job translating this cultural ideas into real world impacts and character motivations.Liu also delivers a fast paced, engaging story. He isn't afraid to jump ahead several months or years at a time and this certainly keeps the action moving. The chapters are typically short and self contained entries that waste little time with frilly development. They have a purpose and usually achieve them very well, be it a battle (which are rarely described in depth), a character's backstory, or some political scheming. I found it very difficult to put down once it built up momentum.Liu also does a wonderful job highlighting the perils of too much power. As much as people say power is just a tool, it is much more insidious. It corrupts people with the delusion that because they have power they are somehow above the common cut of people, seeing clearly where others have their head in the mud."The world was so imperfect, and great men were always misunderstood by their own age"Even worse, power warps the very morality that a person holds dear."The grace of kings is not the same as the morals governing individuals." Fights started with the best of intentions devolve into naked power grabs as the spirit is brought to heel by vainglorious power. Once again: autocracies are a terrible form of government.Finally Liu does turn some damn nice phrases:"I have seen the poor suffer when nobles seek the purity of ideas. I have seen the powerless die when princes believe in the nostalgia of their dreams. I have seen the common people torn from peace and thrown into war when kings yearn to test the clarity of their vision."~~~"... The crowd erupted in applause, and by acclamation, Kuni Garu became the Duke of Zudi. A few pointed out that titles of nobility couldn't be handed out in such a democratic fashion, but these killjoys were ignored."~~~"What is fate but coincidences in retrospect?" ~~~"Emperor, king, general, duke. These are just labels. Climb up the family tree of any of them high enough and you'll find a commoner who dared to take a chance."That being said, the fast pace and story style did not lend itself to very much character development. Even the two main characters didn't so much develop as see their underlying qualities in the early part of the book grow in intensity by the end. I felt like most of the characters could be described with a few qualities and lacked depth. They were mostly there to fulfill some story telling device instead of being flesh and blood creations. Too often I was told about the qualities of a character instead of discovering them through the action in the book.The time jumps also don't help with this either. Because Liu's chapters are so focused on moving the action forward very little time is spent on the characters changing based on past events. I would say that the few female characters are poorly developed but that is a systemic problem that impacts most of the male characters as well. As great at the story was I didn't really feel the characters' joys and sorrows very deeply.In the end I enjoyed the experience of reading this book very much, but the story was a bit light and simplistic. It is a fun ride but a bit empty in retrospect (and no where close to being a Wuxia version of Game of Thrones as the book jacket would have you believe).