Well, umm, talk about disappointments, hmm yeah because, this was a disappointment. I find it interesting that this is the sort of book that I would have loved about three to four years ago when I had just started reading epic fantasy. There’s lots of battle and action, and massive armies and gods, all that sort of stuff. There are multiple POV and so many characters and backstories and all that jazz. I still enjoy all that stuff, don’t me get me wrong, but there was just so much plot, and so many things happening that there was such a clear disconnect for me as the reader and the characters. There was battle after battle, which like great, good for you, but like, what are the characters feeling? What are they going through? How is their mental health impacted, do they regret their actions? I’ve realised that I’ve seriously become much more of a character reader. I still enjoy my plot obviously, but I don’t need as much of it anymore, if the characters are superbly written. This is a six hundred plus paged book that really crammed in so much plot, enough for an entire trilogy of six hundred paged books, but there were little moments where I felt the author truly zoomed into the characters’ heads and for the reader to genuinely connect with them. It was always this battle happened, and they lost so now they are retreating, or oh look that person died so he’s now king. It’s like reading a history book of a secondary world, instead of a novel. It tells the story of this land over several decades, but it never really touches on what the people of the world are going through.It actually reminded me a fair bit of the English translation that I read of the Romance of the Three Kingdoms. I felt that this was written in a very similar fashion. And, as this is written inspired by East-Asian cultures, I believe predominantly Chinese and a lot of plot points, or twists or whatever were very predictable because being person with a Chinese background, I’m aware of a lot of these stories where the author drew his influence from. So, in that sense, while there was so much plot, I didn’t feel overly excited about it. Part of this was because since I wasn’t really with the characters, there wasn’t a lot of tension for me in this book. It wasn’t very exciting to read as all the characters served their purpose, but that was it and I wanted so much more character work. There’s a lot of back and forth simply due to the nature of the conflict and it got boring to read if I’m being honest. It’s an exhausting read as there just so much death and destruction that highlights how pointless war and conflict is and how everyone should just bury their swords and go home - except that isn’t human nature. This entire book is just one long war that goes on and on and on and there was no point to it. I couldn’t deduce the purpose of it because I couldn’t tell what motivated the characters.Mata Zyndu had one character trait and that was getting hella pissed whenever something didn’t go his way and have someone talk him out of it. Kuni’s one trait was being smart apparently even though some of his actions made no sense and I felt were poorly explained. Erishi was the most useless thing, while Jia really served little purpose at all, except for the extremely rushed romance where the characters no feeling towards each other and fell flat at the start. There were also so many characters that served little to no role in the end, they either just died like four pages later or faded in the background, so it was just so unecessary.I honestly probably should have DNF’d this, but I had just DNF’d the last book I had failed to finish so I didn’t want to drop two books in a role. I also wanted to see how this novel would end, and it was as I predicted. Everything just felt rushed. Major battles were quickly skimmed over, yet we got massive expositional dumps whenever a major character was introduced. Events that would normally be considered fairly important were summed up in a sentence or two, which again, like I want to know how this affected the characters, but I didn’t get that from this book. Also, for a good chunk of the start of the book, there was no point. We were following characters in their daily lives, and suddenly bam, bam, bam things come at your face, and then it stops. I didn’t vibe with the pacing in this book at all to say the least.Also apparently, this is basically a straight up retelling of the Chu-Han contention, which is a period of history that I’m not familiar with, but I will say, a lot of moments in this book I have seen before, as it did feel somewhat copy and pastey, which was unfortunate.I wanted to like this before going into it, didn’t work out in the end. In a sense, it is a preference thing, as I am more of a character reader than a plot reader, and if you are here for the plot, you might love this. 2/10