Actual Rating: 1.5 StarsYeesh...It's such a relief to have made it to the end of this book.So let me start with the positive. I love the Asian influence in the story. We don't see a lot of High Fantasy series with such a rich historical element that are based outside of Europe. This is something I definitely appreciated. But unfortunately I just could not connect to any other part of this story.The first 40%-50% of this novel is an absolute jumble. It hops around from character to character telling each story without providing enough cohesion for me care about anyone.I feel the book would've benefited hugely from better organization.I honestly gave up trying to keep most of the characters straight. Eventually the story narrows down to two central leaders, but everyone & everything else around them flew by me in a rapid, blurry whirlwind of confusion.Every so often I would latch onto a thread of what was happening in one section of the story, but it never held my interest long enough for me to invest. Soon enough I was lost again.I want to emphasize that I have no problems at all with a heavily political story. I have no trouble keeping up with complicated relationships, switching allegiances, and intricate webs of characters.The Grace of Kings is almost entirely politics & fighting & death. Usually I can dig that.But I was just overwhelmingly bored while reading this. The politics weren't compelling, people whose names I've already forgotten were dying left & right. I could not get behind anyone's cause.Also, I think it's relevant to mention that this book barely qualifies as High Fantasy. We are provided with one perspective from a group of gods, but otherwise there are no relevant fantastical elements to this story.One character is abnormally large, and has two pupils in his eyes because... well I'm sure there was a reason. But it didn't really end up mattering a bunch?What I'm trying to say is that if I didn't know any better I'd say this was some creative Historical Fiction.Lastly, I want to address the criticism of this book not handling women well. On one hand, I understand the setting didn't allow for much wiggle room for including female characters. I see there was an attempt to include strong women in this story within the constraints of the time period. On the other hand, I still have a bad taste in my mouth upon finishing the book.There was some decent pro-equality dialogue here & there, but it wasn't followed through by creating meaningful roles for the women that did pop up. Ultimately not something I could recommend with a clear conscience. I think there is an audience for a book like this, but sadly I'm not a member of it.