The points I'm giving this book are mostly for its persistence. Liu had a vision of writing a book about empire building over a whole generation, and he did it. Did I enjoy the experiment? No. Did I think it was well done? Meh. But I admire people who play the game, and I think he did it with a stubbornness and earnestness that speak of a passion. Hard to dislike something someone shows their passion in.CONTENT WARNING:  body horror, rape, misogyny, loss of loved ones, childhood trauma, torture. Things to admire:-The scope. Fie on your puny battles for the fate of mankind. This book's got like 12 of those AND of the gods AND like 8 heroes. -The women. I gotta give props. He went out of his way to remind everyone that women are part of all wars, not just as widows but as participants, and to demonstrate how crass dudes sound when they use womanly things as insults. Also, I think there were interesting concepts for the women characters.-The stick-to-it-edness. Most of these books about endless wars and betrayals and pillow talk obviously burn the author out, too, and at some point they flag and turn into summaries. Not so this one. Every time you're like "okay, he's gotta be done with this now" you're wrong! Instead he deep dives into whatever it is, adds a new character with a new backstory to really drive home The Thing and then cavorts in it until the streetlights come on and he's called in to dinner. This story's got stamina.Things that made it boring:-The Nice Guy. Everyone here is Nice. Not good, not flawed, just kinda...nice. This whole story is about people who grow up to do one thing. We've got the politician and the honorable warrior and the martyr and the scholar and... No one's bad, no one's good, no one's particularly interesting.-Minutiae. On the one hand, I'm impressed at how many consistent details Liu could use throughout. On the other hand, I'm not sure I need to meet every grain of sand in this story. I didn't really care about the advisor to the second emperor and his school boy grudges (yes, this is an actual example that gets considerable page time.) I'm not sure what it added?-No drama. There's all these big battles but because you're not particularly given a reason to prefer one side over the other, it's like...who cares? The hero wins and the hero loses no matter how this goes.-No story. We get so many tiny daily life stories, and a lot of battles, but it's a history book, not a tale. This is an alt-world alt-history history book. I could take the AP exams in Zanadu or whatever this country was called and get at least a 3 (which is good, you get to pass out of Zharmian history intro classes in college with a three).So, one star for each point on my AP exam, thanks for a heart-filled and passionate tutelage in Zana.