I finally got around to picking this book up and I am so glad I did becuase I flipping loved it. It's kind of what I would describe as an Eastern version of Mage's Blood or Game of Thrones, and it's bloody brilliant!I thought before going into this I would probably like it. It's by Ken Liu and I've read some of his short fiction in The Paper Menagerie and I loved that entire collection. This book is his debut novel, and it's such a strong book.We follow lots of different characters so this is certainly an epic fantasy story, but the two major protagonists are Kuni Garu and Mata Zyndu. These two characters are the focus for a giant rebellion sweeping the land against Emperor Mapiéré (the tyrant who has united the lands by force in the start of the novel and has proclaimed himself Emperor). Initially we see Mata and Kuni as young boys in a harsh landscape that is in turmoil. The Emperor is fairly new to his rule and the land is bitter against him but rebellions are quickly quashed. Kuni is a young man who his family believe could become great, but he insists on drinking and joking and playing the fool rather than learning. Mata's upbringing is less fortunate as he's the orphan and last of his line. His family were once rulers of a large domain, but since the new Emperor came and killed them to unite his lands he's taken in by his last remaining relative, his uncle, and raised by him. These two young boys grow into young men before our eyes and we see them face challenges to prove their strength of will and character and gather a following. Each is very different, but when they meet a friendship is struck that could spark the end of the Empire...as long as they can trust one another that is...The world-building of this story is excellent and there were multiple scenes of fighting and warfare (something I am not a huge fan of usually) where I found myself completely drawn in becuase of the use of Eastern techniques and devices like silk airships and kites. The scenery, set-up and unfolding of the story often felt like origami to me, just when you think you've figured something out, there's a new layer to unfold.I also really enjoyed the metaphors surrounding Chrysanthemums and Dandelions. Both the main characters compare themselves to these flowers for differing reasons and I felt like both were very apt and beautiful descriptions. I have never before liked Dandelions, but after reading this book and learning the different ways it can be represented I think they may be a new favourite flower for me, just as this is a new favourite series :DThere's also a lot of 'silkpunk' elements to the story where new creations are engineered and introduced to help the characters overcome problems of fighting and warfare. I haven't ever really seen a book that I think so aptly describes the need to adapt and improve and invent in times of war, and I think their book did just that.The magical elements are fairly few and far between but when they do show up they're pretty exciting so we have things like scenes with the Gods and magical ancient texts. The Gods of this world are quite heavily involved in trying to manipulate and inspire the humans of the world to do their will and fight their battles. Sometimes it works and other times it doesn't, but being able to learn about their relationships and motivations was very cool.The magical book I mentioned is a book gifted to one of the characters. It's super interesting to me becuase it doesn't actually tell you anything you don't already know, but rather it sharpens your thoughts and presents them back to you so you can fit together what you know into a plan for action.Later in the story there's also smoke magic which again acts upon clearing or clouding the mind with thoughts and I love that this is a continued theme within the world. The ladies of the book started out with potential but it wasn't until the second half of the book where I fully fell in love with the respect and credit that Ken Liu gave to the women of this world. In the first half we're presented with a few ladies who play minor, but important roles, like Kuni's mother and wife. These characters are big influences on Kuni but the world they live in still rates them as second-class and so it takes a long time for any of them to be able to prove themselves and start to shine. However, in the second half of the book the women becuase such equal characters to the men I couldn't help but to admire and empathise with them just as much as the male characters who were developed for so much longer. Some of the women in the book, Jia, Gin and more, are just EXCELLENT BOSS-LADIES and it was so very refreshing to see that. We also have moments where one of the main character tells off his men for saying women are inferior, and small moments like that are something that make this book so very rounded and good in my opinion. Overall, it was just an excellent read and the only reason it's not quite 5*s is becuase I wanted more and I feel like there's a tiny bit more room to improve still (luckily there's a second book which I have pre-ordered in paperback and hope to get to in June!) 4.5*s from me, and so highly recommended. :D Side note: I will say I think this is far better to be read on kindle/in physical than as an audiobook as I imagine it would be fairly confusing on audio