Another grimdark fantasy novel. The three main characters of this book are veterans from a war against the lizard folk over a decade ago. All of them are damaged in some way: Ringil, our nominal hero, is gay in a culture where gay men are publicly executed. Egar Dragonbane is a steppe nomad chieftain; having seen the world as a young mercenary he’s frustrated and feels trapped in his clan, unable to leave and surrounded by people who don’t look any further than the horizon; Archeth is a half-human, left behind when her father’s people, the Kiriath, abandoned the human realm for their own world.Ringil, living in a semi-exile, is summoned back to his family home by his mother: she needs him to rescue his cousin who was sold into slavery by her husband (before the war slavery was illegal; now people are sold legally to pay their debts); Ringil spent his youth hanging around with the criminal classes and it’s thought his contacts (and skill with his sword) are the best chance they have to find her. But his investigation stirs up a hornet’s nest and the three old comrades are drawn back together to fight against the dwenda (sort of albino super fey) who plan to take the world back from these human upstarts.I enjoyed this book. I felt the world was interestingly detailed and I liked the characters. Ringil, the main character, wasn’t my personal favourite (too full of resentment and anger for me) and I would’ve preferred to spend more time with Egar and Archeth. Glancing at the other reviews, most people seemed to find Archeth their favourite character, but I have a sneaking fondness for Egar; I suspect (hope) his character will be developed in the future books.I feel I should warn potential readers this is grimdark of the very blackest shade; there is a lot of detailed violence and sex and a lot of swearing. If this disturbs you, you probably would be best advised to avoid this book. If not, you may enjoy this trip into an ultra-violent grim world. Me, I plan to be reading the sequels very soon.