This was a solid start to what is shaping up to be a pretty decent dark fantasy series. The biggest flaw this series has going for it is the fact that it is no Altered Carbon. Altered Carbon is a real gem of the sci-fi genre. The Steel Remains is a good book but it is not special in the fantasy genre in the same way Altered Carbon is in the sci-fi genre. We definitely got a got a good story here and I found the writing quite engaging but the worldbuilding was a little run of the mill. I'm not saying it was bad but it was definitely pretty standard stuff. Had I not already read Altered Carbon, where Morgan really nailed the worldbuilding, I'd probably would not be so harsh in my assessment of this series. The plot was decent enough. We followed three different POV characters. They were all old comrades from a war a decade previous who had gone their separate ways but all three of them got pulled back into a new conflict that was brewing. All three characters were interesting enough and had fairly decent story arcs. Ringil was a hero of the bloody wars against the lizards but that counts for little in his homeland since his shameful sexual preferences are public knowledge. He was living the quiet life until his mother tracked him down and asked him to find a cousin who had been sold as a slave. Slavery being legal was a fairly new thing in Ringil's home country and his task complicated all the more when he stumbled into some intrigue that had far reaching ramifications. Egar Dragonbane was also a war hero. The steppe-nomad went back to his clan after the war and his reputation helped him earn the role of chief. It is a position that does not entirely suit him and things come to a deadly impasse when a mix of family bickering and a rising surge in popularity of the conservative religious leaders causes him some issues. Archeth was the last of her human-like race. She remained in the Empire as a sort of consultant and engineer to the Emperor when the rest of her people departed the human realm. She had to deal with a slightly unstable new Emperor on the throne as well as the rising fanaticism and bigotry of the local clergy. Deeper problems arise when a coastal garrison town gets wiped out and the few survivors claim the invaders were not human! I felt both the story and characters were decent enough. The characters were definitely of the grey variety but it still proved easy enough to root for them. The plot was engaging enough even it lacked any real shocks or moments of high excitement. As far as themes go this dealt with a lot of the same issues that the Altered Carbon series dealt with. Morgan's story was filled with a bunch of anti-war, anti-capitalist, and anti-religious themes as well as dealing with various types of bigotry. I felt like most of the topics were handled well enough and that none ever really overwhelmed the story itself. I've read a bunch of reviews over the years that moaned that this book had a ton of graphic sex scenes so I was expected the story to be stuffed full of long sex scenes and that never really materialized. There was only slightly more sex scenes in this one than there was in the Altered Carbon books and none of them were particularly lengthy. If this is what people are considering explicit then they are living a pretty sheltered life! If you are of the prudish or squeamish variety then you likely have more cause to be concerned with the amount of bad language and graphic violence in the story. This was definitely quite a dark and gritty tale but truth be told I did not think the tone was overly depressing or tragic. I felt like Morgan got the balance in the story spot on. This was good dark fantasy not the sort of misery-porn trash that plagues a lot of modern day dark fantasy. Rating: 4 stars. I thought about going with 3.5 stars due to this not being standout like the Altered Carbon books but that would have been harsh as this was definitely and enjoyable and engaging story. Audio Note: Simon Vance did OK with the audio. I'm ever going to be the guys biggest fan.