I’ve been sitting on this review for a while, since I find it hard to describe how I feel about this book. It’s very well written, but the complicated situation the MCs find themselves in made it a frustrating or even infuriating to read at times.This military fantasy is set a colonial empire with all of the issues that a colonial empire brings. Touraine is a soldier who’s taken from her home country as a child and is trained in Balladaire to fight for their kingdom. Luca is a princess and the heir to the Balladairan throne, but she has to prove herself before she can reign. This is what brings her to Qazal with several legions, including the one with Touraine, to put an end to the rebellion in the colony. Luca is a scholar and does not like the idea of violence and repression, but how far will she go to become queen.Touraine’s legion is one of the special divisions made up of stolen children. In contrast to the other soldiers, they are not free and whatever they do, they will never be seen as true Balladairans. But Touraine is desperate to change that and she believes she will be the first one to shift the tides and be respected in the army. However, when back in her home country Qazal she is placed between the Balladairans and the rebels and her beliefs starts to waver. Which side to choose?This is where it got frustrating because it leads to her constantly switching allegiance and making very poor decisions that hurt a lot of people. She doesn’t belong anywhere and nobody wants or trusts her and this makes her behavior understandable, but the switching back and forth gave me a headache at times and one of the biggest problems I had is that she doesn’t communicate with anybody. Again, understandable, because who can she truly trust, but still frustrating. Also Luca makes some poor decisions and where I could sort of understand or defend Touraine’s actions I could not always say the same for Luca.The book starts a bit slow, building the world and especially the political climate. This is often the case in fantasy and I didn’t mind the slower pace, which picks up in the second half. Clearly the characters are more than flawed, but there simply seems to be no good way to handle the situation and I like that Clark did not try to paint a rosy picture, it’s raw and messy and I appreciate that. I do hope the characters will be more stable in the next book now they sort of know where they stand. There is also a very light romance between Luca me Touraine, but again this is messy and seemed to be one sided for a very long time, so I’m still warming up to it, but I’m curious how this will continue. Nevertheless, the story intrigued me and I look forward to reading the second book. I noticed that the cover for the second book has just been released and it looks very promising.