This was a thrilling read, full of diverse and queer characters. I love the entire world-building element of The Unbroken. It was vivid and skilfully constructed. The Unbroken explores the concepts of colonialism and racism. The story is told from the POV of two characters that couldn't be more different. Luca, the heir apparent to the throne and Touraine, a conscript soldier.I enjoyed the politics and the unexpected twists and the search for magic. But the romance, which was the whole reason I wanted to read the book, felt underdeveloped to me. I would've liked more interaction between Touraine and Luca before they go around yearning and crying for each other. I can't believe Luca forgave Touraine so easily. I was really hoping for a big angsty blow up there. Also, something that bugged me was that Luca is protecting and saving Touraine at every turn and Touraine didn't even worry about Luca catching the death plague.Between Touraine's good intentions, dumb decisions and terrible luck she made a very interesting protagonist that I wanted to hug her, punch her or both sometimes. First she was loyal to the sands, then after becoming assistant to the princess she betrays the princess and the rebels to save the sands causing a war, then she joins the rebels but is forced to make them surrender to protect the lives of the sands. Plus she was the whole reason they took Aranen.So yeah she is a little flaky and a lot dumb but still is impossible not to like and makes the read very engrossing due to her unpredictable actions. I really loved her near the end when she refused Luca's help and choose to die with her people. The one scene is enough of a reason to read the book. Crack skulls, magic healing and of course ARANEN!Where Touraine is lead by her heart and emotions, Luca follows her head, and is supposedly shrewd and clever. She is driven by the desire to take her rightful throne from her uncle. For the most powerful character of the book, she didn't utilize her power well enough till that end speech of hers.. Luca's character has a lot more potential and I hope it will be utilized in the next installment.The side characters were all well developed and interesting. I especially liked Jaghotai, Djasha and most of all Aranen. The General, I just can't decide if I hate or not.Overall, this was an enjoyable read. The last 100 pages were the best of the book and I would give anything to read Luca's letter. I can't wait to read the next book in the series. ARC copy provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.