so many conflicting feelings about this book - but i have to seriously commend the author for taking such a unique, difficult approach on an equally difficult topic. pros:- top notch worldbuilding - c.l. clark is a really talented writer, i love how they breathed life into this world and naturally wove in pieces of information within the narrative. - the themes of colonialism/imperialism are brilliantly done - inspired by the french colonization of north africa, the story is told through the eyes of touraine, a soldier stolen from her home as a young child and brainwashed by her colonial masters. honestly, it was a huge struggle reading through her intense internalized racism and admiration of the country that colonized her people. but that also made her eventual growth and unlearning feel all the more valuable and cathartic to see.- what i appreciate the most about this book is how it portrays the rebellion - the rebels are forced to do horrible things as part of their resistance to the colonizers and while we see luca (our colonizer princess) being horrified, the narrative itself never once vilifies the rebels. the unbroken made it clear that violence by the oppressed is always justified (unlike a certain other sapphic fantasy book i read). - the women!!! - the cast features a wide variety of women, most of whom are messy and/or deeply unlikeable and i absolutely loved that. they're all such complex characters, especially my personal faves djasha, aranen and jaghotai. - the most complicated mother/daughter relationship i've ever read - i really liked how it was handled and i'd love to see it further grow. cons:- luca - words can never fully express the hatred i felt for her but i'll try. first off, i get what the author was attempting to do by giving us luca's pov, the future queen of the country that is brutally colonizing the qazāli people. we get a look at the mindset of a colonizer - the fact that they genuinely believe they're helping their colonial subjects and that they have a right of ownership to the culture they've forcefully conquered. what frustrated me about luca was: 1) being touraine's love interest (which i think was completely pointless to the narrative/themes) and 2) her lack of development. she NEVER shows any growth, not once!! it felt so jarring to read about touraine growing and changing her mindset while luca stays the exact same.- also, i don't know how i personally feel about redemption arcs for white colonizer characters. if i had it my way, luca would see the truth of her actions by the end of the series and then die a painful death. - while the climax was really cool and exciting to read, i didn't like how the main balladairan/qazāl conflict was concluded. again, it felt so false and highlighted the utter lack of growth from luca's side. - the epilogue also left a bad taste in my mouth - i hate touraine and luca's romantic pairing so much and i can't tell if we're supposed to root for them or not. even apart from the uncomfortable colonizer x colonized dynamic, they had no chemistry. i have no idea why they were into each other besides lust. overall, i definitely recommend this book to anyone looking for a politically charged adult fantasy with a complex exploration of colonialism. honestly though, me reading the sequels entirely depends on how the author will develop the romance. rep: north african coded world + characters, black lesbian mc, bi/pan mc with physical disability, non binary sc, f/f side couple cws: murder, violence, death by hanging, past attempted rape, torture, racism (internal + external)