3.50 Stars. This was a well written story that unfortunately was not really for me. I love fantasy, especially sapphic fantasy, so this was another book on my most anticipated ‘21 reads list. I was so excited when I was approved for an ARC copy and could not wait to spend this weekend (it’s a long book) reading this. My expectations might have been a little high, but in the end, the quality of this book was definitely higher than my actual enjoyment. Enjoyment wise this book was just in the average or okay category, but I upped my final rating a little because the book was well written.This is a long book, twice the size of an average read, but I was excited for a big epic fantasy adventure. I knew that this book was slower in parts, and it was, but I actually liked the slower parts. I thought the world building was well done and I loved all the details of culture, government, and military that Clark wrote so well. I felt fully immersed in this new world. I also thought that Clark did really well with not being too info-dumpy which is always appreciated. I’ve noticed in other reviews, that people thought the first half was slow but liked the second better. While I agree about the speed, I was the opposite in what I enjoyed. The book from about 50% to 75%, felt like a real slog to me. The pace actually speeds up, but I felt like there were a bunch of start and stops in all the action and little storylines. It looks like this is going to happen, but then this does, than this, so I could not get comfortable with the story and it was harder to read. The flow of the last quarter, the ending, was much better but I didn’t particularly enjoy reading about anything that was going on.I think the biggest issue was that I did not like the main characters. I like strong badass women and while both mains acted like they wanted to be, they were anything but. Luca, a princess who did not seem to understand crown politics at all, and Touraine, a lieutenant who disappointed me most of all. Touraine, who is supposed to be the best, the highest ranking of all her soldiers, and instead is an absolute mess. I don’t think she did anything right the whole book except for one choice near the end. It was so frustrating to read about such a useless character. I can’t even count how many people are dead because of her choices. You know when you wish a main character will just go away to some far off city and leave the rest of the characters in peace, well that’s not really a great sign.Besides the fantasy aspects, I wanted to read this book because it was sapphic. That was a bit of a bummer too. I would not read this book if you are looking for romance. I would say that this book did not have romance. One character likes the other, while the other character just ruins anything that character is trying to do. It’s not much of a relationship and I could not even get why one character pinned after the other when she got nothing in return. I’m such a character driven reader that not liking the mains really affected my enjoyment. If you are more of a plot driven reader, this book might work much better for you. This book has a lot of wonderful high reviews so I’m a bit of an outlier here. It was well written and well imagined, but it just was not my type of book. I don’t think I will be reading the sequel, but this author has plenty of talent and I will keep an eye on her future books. A copy was given to me for a review.