Jade War was an absolute home run, as the narrative surpasses the first book in almost every respect! After following some intuition, and much curiosity from GR friends that recommended 'Jade City', I really enjoyed the 'urban-fantasy' , 'asian-gangster' inspired setting of the first book. At its end, so many threads were left bare and hanging, that I had to immediately get into Jade War. Jade War was stunning in conception, characterization, world building and magic system!!!It's fucking amazing how Fonda Lee was able to 'raise the bar' in almost every detail of the narrative! * The plot is more engaging. * The prose is more fluid, with excellent dialogue and interaction between characters.* The world of Kekon, explodes in authenticity and vividness with so much crafting and detail, that it blew me away and drew me instantly closer to the story! * The magic system felt so organic and the incorporation of 'bioactive Jade' in the story was masterfully interwoven in all of the characters and life in 'Kekon'.  Fonda Lee expands the world of 'Jade City' and we finally visit other countries, specially 'Espen', which will alter the course of much of the story. Lee is quite ambitious as she brings about 'foreing wars', that will also have geo-political ramificaitons to both 'No Peak' and 'Mountain' clans. Ultimately Jade War has amazing 'action scenes' with fantastic use of 'jade powers' between the asian clans. Yet, it is the 'political' and 'business' endeavors of different clan members that will most directly affect the course of the great clan battle! I was quite impressed with the level of detail the author placed in non-violent events ( politics, business transactions) and how it all leveled out at the end of the book. The prized jewel of Jade War are its characters, and this time around Fonda Lee created some uniquely amazing individual and clan family members! We see the return of most family members from the 'No Peak' clan, and the family bond is stronger than ever. There's great exposition in the lives of protagonists such as 'Hilo', ' Shae' and 'Anden'. Secondary characters added, only improved the flow and tension in the story. You can't help but really root for mostly 'good family gangsters' that occasionally kill and dismember its enemies! “The clan is my blood and the Pillar is its master.”― Fonda Lee, Jade WarIn the end, Jade War reminded of 'Godfather' or even 'Sopranos', where you know these are evil people willing to stop at nothing to keep power and protect their loved ones...but you gotta love them!! 5 Stars!