Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.
A jaw dropping follow up to Jade City that somehow is better in virtually every way imaginable.Jade City was one of the best books I have read in 2022, and while I felt relatively confident that I would think similar thoughts about Jade War, I also know that fantasy trilogies can very often suffer from "middle book syndrome" so I was cautiously optimistic going into this one. Thankfully, my slight trepidation was quickly dispelled because this book is absolutely wonderful from the beginning until the end. It takes the foundation that made the first book so great, and doesn't need the slow character development the first book needed to get right into the flow of this story.Story: 5/5Based on the ending of Jade City, the beginning of this book was a little slower because the action came to a plot induced slowdown that needed to be slowly ramped up again. I actually worried that things were going to be moving too slowly while reading this, as I was not even sure what direction the plot was going to take us until around the 30% mark. The central conflict seemed to be resolved (even though as a reader we know that it won't stay resolved forever), so the tension in most of this book comes from newer conflicts and internal character driven drama. I loved the pacing here, with the nice blend of slowdown and quick ramp up. There were sections of this story that had me sitting on the edge of my seat, and literally sweating with anticipation of what was going to come next. Most of these events shocked me as a reader, and I will cherish them for a long time to come.I also enjoyed the direction that Anden (the adopted brother) went with his character arc in a different country. It was a nice insight both into new locations, and into his character development. World Building: 4/5The world is expanding in this book with a focus on multiple locations that were outside of the main city of Janloon (where 95% of Jade City took place). I liked this broader scope, as I am an avid fan of epic fantasy. And while this book most certainly could not be described with such terms, it moves in that direction and I appreciated that change in focus. It made things feel more global, and increased the tension and importance of the events that occurred.But while the scope has expanded, and the areas described are full of wonderful descriptions that really bring them to life - at it's heart this is an urban fantasy and it's hard for me to really come away thinking urban fantasies (most of the time) can be extremely memorable due to how closely they resemble real life. Swap out any of these cities for real life cities and you wouldn't ever notice other than having new names.Fantasy Elements: 3/5The fantasy elements of this book also felt a bit stale. The thing that makes this a fantasy book is that the country of Kekon is the only location in this world that produces jade - which grants the people who wear it with exceptional strength/speed. It's a very basic magic system that feels rather uninspired. And while it does keep the plot moving in important ways, it's just not nearly on the same innovative level as most modern day fantasy novels. I'm not sure that adding in a crazy magic system would have benefitted this book, but as it stands this is definitely the weakest part of this book.Characters: 5/5The characters are one of the things that makes this book so special. The book mostly revolves around the POVs of three siblings, and each of them have compelling personal stories with tremendous character growth. At no point was I disappointed when the POV switched, as I like them all equally.These are flawed characters that are fighting against those flaws, and it's extremely entertaining to watch them progress through this story and interact with each other, and the side characters of this book. Even the side characters are well done, including the rival family which doesn't end up feeling like a "good vs. evil" storyline, which I appreciated from this author.I loved the increased focus here on some of the more minor characters, with some extended POV time being given to some of them. It really made this story more fleshed out and realistic.Writing Quality: 5/5The writing style here has really grown on me and I have come to really appreciate it's strengths. The focus here is on character development, and while the prose is not flowy or much to remember - the vivid depth that went into these characters more than makes up for this. Enjoyment: 5/5If you couldn't tell by now, Jade War was a marvelous experience for me that will have me thinking of this book as a top, top tier 5/5 for a long time to come. I'm saddened that my journey with these characters is nearing an end, and that's always a sign of a highly enjoyable series.