2🌟 DNF at 82% 

“I am not a politician. Gold and jade, never together. But if you must choose between the two, count on jade.”

 Jade War is my most disappointing read of 2021. Even if we are only barely in July, I highly doubt I will be as frustrated with a book as I was with Jade War. In my review of Jade City I pointed out how much Fonda Lee’s writing relies on exposition. If the first book at least tried to alternate exposition paragraphs with actual narration, Jade War totally abandons this style to focus entirely on excruciatingly long, bland explanations about the world political situation, useless digressions about life, death and miracles of secondary characters, and a myriad of other questionable interruptions.Fonda Lee created a complex world, with intricate political ties between countries. However, she is so focused on explaining every small detail, that every other aspect of the book is obscured by this mass of informations. I could totally understand this choice if all the expositions were somewhat useful, but really, most of them are not. Icing on the cake, some explanations are repeated multiple times through out the story. Every time someone talks to Espenian representatives, Lee feels the need to specify not only who these people are, where they worked, to whom their are faithful. She repeats - and swear, she does this every. single. time! - the international background, the alliances in place, how this or that conflict is going, the economical pacts, the emigration rates... Why the fuck should I care about all these informations when I already know what’s happening, because you, author, have already told me two chapters prior?? Is all this really necessary understand a two page conversation?? Another enormous problem is that Fonda Lee ignores the writer’s golden rule, “show don’t tell”. The author constantly summarizes conversations and events, and states how the characters are feelings instead of displaying it. Lee goes as far as to cut entire dialogues, reduce scenes to the bare minimum, and all of this is sacrificed for more paragraphs of exposition. Here an example (in which I censored the characters’ names to avoid spoilers): “The words came reasonably smoothly; HUY had spent much of the past two weeks with the radio in her office tuned to the Espenian station and several hours talking to herself in Espenian, refreshing her memory of the language she’d had limited occasion to use since returning home from WIWIWI. She spoke more slowly and deliberately than usual not only to minimize her accent, but to set the tone of the meeting.” okay cool. Why was this thing about the radio mentioned here? Why not show us in previous scenes that she was listening to it? Why not tell us about the machinations in another way other than bland exposition?You can easily understand how uninspired and boring the writing is by simply reading how uneventfully Lee describes pregnancies, weddings and births. In the following paragraph (once again, no spoilers) it is mentioned for the first time that a woman is pregnant: “QUY could always say that she was going to the doctor for a prenatal checkup and that TYA was the one accompanying her. At twelve weeks, QUY was clearly showing her pregnancy.” Twelve weeks, and this is the first time it comes up? Twelve weeks, and you tell us like this??The exposition would be okay if it was backed by a strong plot, but Jade War, despite the cool title, has no plot at all. 80% of the book is talking about things to come, setting up stakes and tension; the problem is the payoff is extremely poor in the majority of cases. For the first half of the book Lee sets up a situation where two characters are directly opposing in a media war, but when they finally confront each other it only lasts one chapter and the outcome is never brought up again.Jade War is extremely boring as there is no clear direction to the events. In every chapter, Lee skips a weeks at a time, even entire months or seasons and proceeds to summarizing what happened in those time gaps. In the long run this method was jarring and constantly broke my immersion; it felt like the author didn’t know how to manage the story timeline. Apart from the occasional fight or interesting plot point, Jade War consists in the characters jumping between a meeting with Tom, a tea with Dick, and another meeting with Harry. That’s it; that’s the fantastic plot of this book. Neither can I say this novel suffers the “middle book syndrome”, because I really don’t know what it was supposed to set up for the sequel. Everything that happens in Jade War was already established in Jade City, so what is the point of this book? Thanks to Fonda Lee’s passion for time skips, Jade War spans three years. However, if we consider the characters’ evolution, it feels like barely a month. The characters don’t evolve, they stay the same from beginning to end. Apart from Anden and Shae, I don’t see any difference in the other members of the cast. I cannot but blame this inertia on the massive amount of exposition instead of letting us readers live the moment. The dialogues, when there are, are shallow, always circling around the same matters and with little regards to how the people talking feel. The amount of time spent on analyzing characters’ thoughts and feelings is non-existent; as I said before, we are merely told how they feel in what I would call “catch-up paragraphs”, where Lee sums up what happened during the time skips and explains how the character felt in the aftermath of an event. What a boring writing style! An example of how shallow the narrative arcs is Bero. Bero’s arc is supposed to show how jade inevitably corrupts people, but all his character development is off page! One day he decides that jade ruined his life, and that’s it. There are no reflection from his behalf on the matter, we are simply told that he feels that way. The same goes for Hilo. He started off as an easy going brute, and by the end of Jade War he is a brooding brute. What exactly did he accomplish in this book? Some people praise this author for how intimate her writing is, how she can give life to her fictitious world. And then there’s I, here reading recaps and bad descriptions of cardboards characters and a very complicated yet boring world. Where are are the characters Lee set up in Jade City? Where the fuck is the war the title promised???The only reason why I’m not giving this book one star is because I don’t give that rating unless a book is unreadable. Jade War is (barely) readable, and I still think the idea of magical Jade stones is really cool. I just wish the author had been competent enough to craft an interesting story.