“Belief is the first step toward making your dreams come true,”
Jade War is a great addition to this series, it is even better than Jade City and I thought that was a great book, I lack words to say how much I love this book, it exceeded all the expectations I have.The events here took place a year and some months after book one. The synopsis says it all, but if you haven't read it, here's a summary.The clans signed a treaty to end the clan war going on, other countries wants jade for themselves to arm their armies, their neighbouring countries are warring each other and the Espenians have picked a side. The clans have to work together to make sure that the winning country don't attempt to take over theirs.The main theme in this book is family, I love the way the author depicted the Kaul and Maiks, they are not only loyal to each other they also love each other, there is also romance in this, the fight scenes were well depicted, I love it.The world building is exceptional, this is an urban fantasy but the only thing that makes it somewhat contemporary is technology, apart from technology everything else including the countries are made up, though they mirror our world. The magic system is amazing, Jade is like a gemstone, it's gotten only in Janloon and only the natives of that country can use it, when you wear the jade either as a jewelry or studded to the skin, it gives the wearer super strength, makes them fast, they can deflect both people and objects among other things. The characters in this series are awesome, the author did a good job, it's been a while since I read about characters with such depth and personality. No two characters are the same and none is the clone of another. This series is written in third person multiple POV of the Kaul family and Bero that I still loathe.Hilo has now adapted to the Pillar role, he was struggling in book one but now he is better and no longer wants to solve all the Horn's problems, he also listens to Shae. Despite the above, he is still violent and will kill anyone who threatens his family. I love that he didn't really change, he just evolved.Shae is the best weatherman ever, she knows her job and does it well, she has made lots of business opportunities that will generate money for the clan.Anden is now in Espenian, it took time but he later adapted, even abroad he met some green bones and had found a way to help the clan.Wen is the best, her relationship with Shae is what I love most in this book, if not for her efforts, the clan won't have reached the level they are in now. Her openness and willingness to help the clan is deeply admirable.The Maik brothers have more page space in this book, I got to know them better. Kehn has a POV in this book, he is so calm, loyal and hardworking.