"She'd been in love with him from the moment she first saw him. She'd been in love with him before that - in a whole other timeline"^That quote is just . . . really gross. I mean here we go again with another iteration of insta-love! I'm really disappointed with this novel. Only a Monster was my most anticipated YA book of 2022. I was promised a cool time travel story and a subversion of the Buffy and the Vampire Slayer formula, with the reader being on the side of the monsters rather than the monster slayer. The marketing team also hyped the book to be the next This Savage Song with some heart-stopping romance thrown in the mix. I think it almost failed to deliver on all of these things that were promised.I think my issue with this book started with the characters. Almost everyone was pretty flat and undeveloped. Joan is the kind of YA heroine that I very much despise -- she's whiny, needlessly petulant and stubborn. She makes careless decisions throughout the book without considering the ramifications of her actions and how it would negatively affect the people around her. She is a throwback to the naive and stubborn paranormal YA heroine of the 2000s and early 2010s and for those of us who have been reading YA for more than a decade, I think all of us are over that. She endangered the lives of her allies several times in her mission to change the massacre of her family and she wasn't even sorry about it. At one point, Aaron Oliver (the second male lead) tells her "God, you are so fucking . . . So fucking raw" and I couldn't blame him -- I was equally exasperated and annoyed by Joan's constant naivety and insistence that she knows how to save her dead family even if she was just thrust into this monstrous world and knows nothing at all. Nick (the monster slayer and main love interest) isn't any better. He's just soooo bland — an archetype of Captain America basically. His pursuit of justice and desire to eradicate every monster who stole time from humans has no nuance whatsoever. He has no personality at all apart from his singular pursuit of justice. Because Joan is extremely annoying and Nick is one dimensionally good and bland, I didn't care about the romance at all. The worst part though is that their relationship is insta-love. They barely had any conversations in that one summer they were together and yet they somehow can't stop thinking about each other. The author uses the soulmates trope to justify why they feel strongly for each other in such a short span of time, but for me it was extremely ineffective in making me ship these two characters. Perhaps because I never bought into the soulmates trope - I like my romance stories to be sufficiently justified and established with many conversations and important bonding moments. Some novels (like Rachel Caine's Prince of Shadows) were able to put a fresh spin to insta-love through careful, convincing writing. But the author failed to do that and . . . I just don't care about these people.This leads me to point number two that the writing is weak and basic. The author could've made me care more about Nick and Joan by integrating many flashbacks while Joan and Aaron were on the run from Nick and his monster slaying team. I would've been more convinced about their timeline defying romance if they had meaningful conversations prior to the monster massacre. Or if there was an in-depth exploration of the initial surge of attraction that they felt. Unfortunately, there was none of that and the reader is grabbed in the hand from one action scene to the next. The plot pretty much moves from point A to point B with very little surprises. The weakness of the writing affected every aspect of the story -- not just the romance. I never felt any strong tension or anxiety while Aaron and Joan were trying to run away from Nick's monster slaying crew when this whole scenario should have been induced with so much dread, anxiety and paranoia.To further add to my issues with the writing, it's quite unpolished. I counted more than 4 typos throughout the book. On page 5, the narrator says "She and Nick had been getting closer and closer over the summer, but this felt like the geggining of something new". On page 319, it says "The was a pause before Aaron answered" On page 323 it says "What it is?" instead of "what is it?" I just . . . where is the editor? I keep seeing so many typos which was jarring and pulled me away from the story several times. Another issue is, for all the talk of subverting monster stories, and well-respected authors like Naomi Novik saying this novel is "original and complex”, Only a Monster is so incredibly derivative. After Aaron and Joan managed to escape to the past, a heist subplot was introduced around the halfway mark. Apparently, if they wish to change the current timeline, they would have to infiltrate the King's Monster Court and steal a transformatio -- a powerful object that was said to only exist in myths. My first thought was "oh gosh, not this shit again". Majority of the second half was pretty much predictable. It was basically another Six of Crows and The Gilded Wolves ripoff. Why did Vanessa Len choose to write about something that has been done to death in YA fantasy? There's also many plot holes if one wishes to dig deep and analyze aspects of the story, which is pretty much expected of most time travel stories. Compare this book to Inception, Looper and other beloved time travel stories though and it just falls extremely flat.There were a couple of things that saved it from getting 1 star. First, the ending surprised me a little. Len did try to subvert some of these cliched tropes she was using and went for an evil set-up for the next book. The characters I loathed did demonstrate some growth and maturity, which may convince me to give the second book a try. Unfortunately though, it was too little too late. Second, is Aaron Oliver. There's a lot of potential with his character. He's pompous, arrogant, elitist and bratty -- but with a surprisingly soft heart hidden beneath that exterior. He's the only mildly interesting character here. I don't ship him with Joan though because the latter was just so annoying for most of the book. And to be honest, Aaron catching feelings for her was also unconvincing. They were mostly bickering for most of the book and didn't really have many important or cute conversations. Both sides of the love triangle were just poorly developed, unfortunately. Only a Monster had a really interesting premise, but it's squandered by mediocre and unpolished writing, derivative subplots, ineffective use of insta-love and soulmates trope, predictable (for the most part) plot and flat characters. Frankly, I think debut authors can do much better than this. PS: I recommend reading This Savage Song and Daughter of Smoke and Bone first if you're looking for good YA urban fantasy. If you want to see a fresh and unique spin to insta-love, give Rachel Caine's Prince of Shadows a go. I think these books are just so much better.