(I'm going to get sued for this)Did I read the same book as everybody else?Rating: ✨ (though I will leave it at two stars because it physically pains me to lower it further)Because either I got brainwashed into thinking this was horrid or this book was just not for me. Which is IMPOSSIBLE, because helloooo, monsters? Antagonists???? Villains??? What part of that doesn't scream BOOKSY PICK UP THE DANG BOOK RIGHT THIS MOMENT?I don't even know what went wrong- Oh got it! Every. Thing.Let's face it, this will be a super long rant with extra sarcastic remarks and unrivaled pettiness. Why? Because the fact that I hated this book breaks my heart. And in consequence of that, I need to say that the things I will murder concerning this book are of no ill will to the author herself. In short, I'll be burning the book, not the writer. ( I know from experience she is so sweet and awesome, and I really hope she never reads this-)Possibly myself too because I hyped this up for too long, KNOWING that the outcome would be less than perfect.Which has happened before, so really, it shouldn't anger me anymore.But it does.A-freaking-lot.*deep breath keeps the demon away*Let's start with the fact that there was absolutely, literally nothing, nada, that screamed monsters about this. (you'll get sick about how much I mention this information)Oh wait, is lack of personality and personal ambition considered monstrous? Silly me, I should've considered that. *flicks on zippo lighter with glee*I'll try to be as honest as I can whilst still maintaining the nice version of Booksy and to complete such an ardours task, I'll divide this by the stars the book lost.Like my hopes.And dreams.And will to live-Also, stars it gained. -0.5 The Plot:I really do have to say nice things about it first because I feel horrible right now and being a human is difficult and having emotions is a nuisance and if someone ever said these things to me, I would run away crying.Dramatically.With onion tears.And possibly a beheaded body dragging behind me, because why not?When someone mentions villains, I'm there.If they say there are monsters, I don't care about my wellbeing, take me.And if there are time travelling plot lines thrown in for the torture of it? What are you waiting for???? Throw me into a van and sacrifice me to Zeus if it means I can read it.Yet when I began this wonderful journey of amputating a part of my soul to gift it to a book I was hoping would emotionally wreck me, something felt wrong.More like, a few things were missing.Like the monsters.And logic.(I promise I'm not usually this salty, but it's painful to acknowledge that this story didn't live up to its hype)At the start, I attributed my stale feelings to the shock of having the opportunity to read such a book, then I questioned whether it was me. Later on, I totally and completely gave up on the idea that this was going to get better. As it is still an ARC, I cannot say too much. However, if I were to have the ability to go back in time (hehe), punch myself in the throat and tell that stupid little child to calm down and not get so hyped-- I would.On the brighter side of the volcano, I'm considering swimming in:~There were some parts that were thrilling, yes.~Others when I felt my freezing heart melting itself.~Some that surprised me and made my eyebrows strive to meet my hairline (however impossible it may seem).But in the grand scope of things, when I finally closed the book for the last time and took a slight breath to compose myself, the good things were completely obscured by the unlikable instances the plot strived on giving me.I considered overdosing on chocolate, y'all. It was serious.-0.5 The Writing:I truly believe there's a road for improvement and considering this is a debut novel, I can overlook grammar mistakes because come on, I make grammar atrocities every time I open up the computer. However, this book --including the plot and writing-- gave me more of a middle grade vibe than a YA one. Let me explain:I wasn't given the chance to actually care about the characters because the writing portrayed them as superficial and thin in existence. The repetition of certain phrases left much to be desired.Fights scenes were unseasoned, not enough blood for the amount of stabbing-And you know what? Maybe I would've enjoyed it more if the book was classified as Middle Grade. I would've been given a slight warning beforehand, and I could've related more with younger characters whose decisions matched their age. And their thought process made sense for thirteen-year-olds.Don't get me wrong, I was surprised when a few sceneries were described with beauty and written elegance, but it was overshadowed by certain dialogue prompts that made my brows furrow in slight frustration.I rarely critique a book's writing because I'm not an author (at least not yet) so who am I to judge how a person writes when they've poured their soul into it? But in this case, I do see how the author of this book can grow as an Enchanter of Words (not me running out of ways to say the word author, pfffft) and I think that the way to grow is to hear others opinions about it. Of course, when they aren't rude.Also, that page where the word 'said' was repeated 11 times almost killed me.I wanted to cry.-0.5 The Pace:For this one, I'll be very brief because my thought process can't seem to expand more than that.It was all over the place, I'm sorry but it was. I really thought this was a standalone. Things were moving way WAY too quickly for it to be a series - oh but it is.*smile through the tears, darling. Smile through the tears*-1 The characters:They were simply pieces of stapled cardboard. Shiny edges, pointy ends, useless existence. You get it-Nonetheless, the MC was good, decent, nice. Fought for her family, fought for what she thought was right (especially without thinking it through, she really loved doing that) which I enjoyed, but her main characteristic is that she's a monster but actually not.Also, she's speshul.And possibly has a thing for history affairs.On a great note though, her being biracial and having that diversity implemented in the story was incredibly refreshing and something I would love to see more of! I think I connected with her sense of selflessness for the ones she loved. No matter what, family was extremely important to her, which I admired.Then we have the background characters- that will be totally skipped to save time for the rest of the ranting.Aaron is a complete disgrace. There, I said it. Y'all KNOW I'm all for the broody, arrogant, slightly concerning male love interest who makes my heart pound just by blinking. Imagine someone whine and question everything for HOURS. That's him and I hate the feelings that he failed to invoke because how can a 'monster' not be good for me ???Luego, we have the other half of the sad triangular thingy, Nick. At first I didn't see the point of him being alive, and then I was like... ooOOOOoooo, I see you. *wink wink*I totally see, you know....HmMaybe I see a little too much.What are you doing??? StahpYou know when there's a character that at first you don't root for, and then you do, and then you DON'T? And the pain is all the more prominent? That's my personal relationship with him.+0.5 Love Triangle:Of course, we cannot possibly forget about the love triangle. *chokes on disappointment*To be honest, I'm completely trash for that trope. Can it be utterly frustrating? Of course.But it's the drama I crave. Thus why I added half a star. To feel better about my decisions. However, the supposed love triangle in this book didn't even make SENSE. The intrigue? Let's fly over that. Chemistry? Pfft, who needs it? *sigh* I am so sorry for those who have been reading this venting session until this point, because I'm going to get so much worse.And enemies to lovers?? HAHAHAHAHAHAHATHERE'S NONE OF THAT HERE-I KNOW-WE WERE MISLED--2 'MONSTERS':This is where smoke starts to come out of every orifice I have in my body. I won't spoil, pinkie promise!! But when a book is marketed as monster friendly, you know what I expect? *whispering* Monstersss.Blood drinking, skin craving, marrow drenching monsters. Even if they're atrocious humans. Even if they perform stealing souls art. A monster by pure definition is a 'large, ugly, and frightening imaginary creature' (thank you Google). And that can be manipulated! Killers are monsters. Abusers are monsters. Kids can be monsters. Cruelty is monstrous. Yet none of the characters did anything actually monster like. Kill something, for goodness’s sake-On a closing note, I'll repeat that this wasn't against the author. If you loved the book, I'm genuinely happy for you! Please tell me the good things, so I can feel better. But there were simply too many things I disliked for me to properly fall in love with it. The plot was endearing and interesting enough at first, then turned into an abrupt ending with literally no logic in sight. Characters made me feel nothing, pace destroyed me and the thing that I was most looking forward to --the enemies-to-lovers-- was made a mockery.I feel horrible yet vindicated. I need professional help.~👑Special thanks to Netgalley and the author for the ARC in exchange for an honest review!👑~..................I'm going to go cry now until I can properly express myself......................Oh would you look at that...Netgalley denied me and Apollo had pity on me, so it let me have it in a getaway-If you can't tell, Netbaby- I'm triumphantly glaring.Don't underestimate begging Apollo-ALSO FANGIRLING BECAUSE I'M SO SCARED TO START THIS.I ALREADY PREORDERED IT.WHAT DO I DO IF I DON'T LIKE IT-........................HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAHANetgalley, please work with me on this one-I don't need this book, it's already a part of me.