2.5 stars...maybe a full 3?I'm having such a hard time with how I feel about this book!I was looking for another fantasy/heist book like The Palace Job, and The Lies of Locke Lamora has so many great reviews that I thought it would be an easy win for me.Ehhh. Yes and no. But mostly no.Let me be the first to admit that the problems I had with this one?Well, they might be exactly why every other reader loved it. It took me forever to get through this. It felt like years went by while I tried to get to The Good Stuff. I know that a lot of you love books that give detailed descriptions of the character's surroundings. I know, I know, I know!Please, for the love of God, don't spam my review thread with your comments on how I just don't understand the beauty of the lush world Lynch built.I most certainly do understand, but I don't enjoy reading about what material a character's coat is made out of unless it will somehow be relevant later on in the story.Here's my rule on this sort of thing:Unless the fact that the gently swaying purple flower's fragrance made WhoTheFuckEver do/say/remember something important that will move the plot forward?Well, then I don't even need to know that there was a fucking purple flower!And, yes, I do like the world I'm reading about to feel complete and real, but there's only so much I can (personally) take.This book tested my patience.There was so much...just irrelevant crap on every page that I started skimming in earnest by the 50% mark. I hate skimming because I always think I'm going to miss something, but I had to do it, or I would never have finished.Another thing that bothered me were all the fucking flashbacks.Because EVERY TIME shit would start to get interesting, you'd have to go back and read about their childhoods. That would have been fine, 
if
 all of these flashbacks were interesting. They weren't.It was a 50/50 split between relevant stories of their past and boring bullshit filler that had a speck of pertinent information. So.The core of the story is clever, funny, charming, heart-wrenching, and fun...once you scrape away about half of the words.I mean, the plot would easily have made this a 5 star book for me. EASILY!It's well-written, it's lovely, it made me feel things!But when I went to request the next book, I found myself sort of shuddering at the thought of slogging through any more of these guys' adventures.I'm not the kind of reader who can truly enjoy this kind of book, but maybe you are? There are lots of glowing reviews for this one, so take my opinion with a grain of salt.