Loved the complex fantasy world and great worldbuilding; not so much the brutality and grimness. In many ways, The Lies of Locke Lamora is one of the better adult fantasies I've read in quite a while. Locke Lamora is a con artist, with the emphasis on both "con" and "artist." He's the leader of a close-knit gang of five con men."Locke is like a brother to us, and our love for him has no bounds. But the four most fatal words in the Therin language are 'Locke would appreciate it.' ""Rivaled only by 'Locke taught me a new trick,' " added Galdo."The only person who gets away with Locke Lamora games—""—is Locke Lamora—""—because we think the gods are saving him up for a really big death. Something with knives and hot irons—""—and fifty thousand cheering spectators."The brothers cleared their throats in unison.Locke and his gang gleefully plan and execute elaborate cons to swindle the rich nobility in their city of their gold, for no real reason other than their love of putting one over on other people (the money they get mostly sits around their hideout unused) and because this is what their mentor raised them to do.Locke and his friends are in the middle of an excellent con, when their lives — and the lives of everyone in the underworld in the city of Camorr — are complicated by the arrival of a deadly foe known only as the Gray King, who has a seemingly unbeatable sorcerer, the Falconer, assisting him. The Gray King is insistent on Locke playing a role in his plans, and as those plans slowly unfold over the course of the novel, the stakes keep rising and the body count goes higher.Locke Lamora is set in a fantasy world where some people (mostly ruthless ones) have magical powers, the wealthy live in lovely, glowing, indestructible towers built by some mysterious alien race before their time, and deadly animals like wolf sharks and salt devils (dog-sized spiders) are anxious to kill you. The world-building in this novel is outstanding.The narrative jumps back and forth between Locke's boyhood days as an orphan and his adult adventures. It was a bit confusing at first, but once I got into the flow of it I really appreciated the insights into the growing-up years of Locke and his friends, and how the past informs the present. In the end the two timelines tie together in some very soul-satisfying ways.This is an imaginative, well-written and well-plotted novel, but it gets truly grim and bloody in some scenes, and countless F-bombs litter the pages like confetti. It's a bit too much for me personally to totally love this book or to continue with the series, but if you like hard-hitting fantasies, this is a very good one.Content notes: Hard R-rated book: Lots of gore; lots of swearing. Not for kids or clean-reads-only readers.