what to say that hasn't been said already?nothing! so i'll say it all over again.fun dialogue. great setting—but the author's way more in love with it than i ever got to be, so his endless digressions were frustrating. some of them had a satisfying impact on the story, but some were just random, and frequently set in the past, in a series of irritating interludes right when something exciting was about to happen.some characters wander off, never to be seen again; some are brutally murdered; one is hilariously never seen at all, apparently only existing so nobody thinks locke lamora is a homo. and speaking of women and queers:what's the point of mentioning women if the only ones you care to give any lines are either gruesomely murdered, whores, gruesomely murdered whores, or a—well. maybe that's a teensy bit unfair. the dowager was wildly entertaining. but everyone else? i can think of only one who is not the dowager, invisible, murdered, a whore, or of no real utility whatsoever until someone needs an alchemist at a party.and noooooooo queeeeeeeeeeers.everyone is mediterranean-looking, or blonde as fuck, which—sure, ok, whatever. people have been creating fantasy worlds lacking any sensible distribution of genetic characteristics for hundreds of years, so why stop now?but mostly—mostly—it's the structure that got on my nerves.lynch can write. seriously! the man's got chops. but he chopped his story up, so that every time any dramatic tension or rising capery pleasure developed, it was chop! time for another fucking interlude about the ceremonial vestments of the priesthood of chekthelionassus and why they only wear breechclouts on the third day of grrbhlstnwyrsheddin. no, it's fine—go ahead. i'll wait. it's more fun when you say it out loud anyway.i liked the arc, but would have liked it more if lynch hadn't been messing with it the entire time. for these reasons, and despite a more or less rousing finish only a leeeeetle bit diminished by firstbookitis, i find i can rate this no higher than a two. i thought it was pretty okay—but still just okay.