“The saying goes, ‘The black tides of heaven direct the courses of human lives.’ To which a wise teacher said, ‘But as with all waters, one can swim against the tide.'”So What's It About?Mokoya and Akeha, the twin children of the Protector, were sold to the Grand Monastery as children. While Mokoya developed her strange prophetic gift, Akeha was always the one who could see the strings that moved adults to action. While his sister received visions of what would be, Akeha realized what could be. What's more, he saw the sickness at the heart of his mother's Protectorate.A rebellion is growing. The Machinists discover new levers to move the world every day, while the Tensors fight to put them down and preserve the power of the state. Unwilling to continue to play a pawn in his mother's twisted schemes, Akeha leaves the Tensorate behind and falls in with the rebels. But every step Akeha takes towards the Machinists is a step away from his sister Mokoya. Can Akeha find peace without shattering the bond he shares with his twin sister?What I ThoughtI really like Yang's take on silkpunk, which is a blend of sci fi and fantasy rooted in technological advances. Instead of adopting the traditional steampunk trappings of Victorian England, however, silkpunk takes inspiration from East Asian settings and cultural mores. If you're interested in learning more about it,  here's  an interview with Ken Liu where he describes it in more detail. Yang's take on silkpunk involves thought-provoking debates over who should be permitted to control technological advances as well as an elemental magic system that doesn't bog itself down in to many rules and mechanisms (I'm going through a phase where I dislike hard magic systems!) I also liked its meditations on the nature of fate - how is it possible to choose your own path when you have been shaped for a certain destiny all your life? As a twin myself I also have a certain soft spot for stories that feature twins prominently. Yang does a great job of capturing the unique experience of being a twin in its intensity, love and resentment. Akeha spends much of his life in Mokoya's shadow, not through any fault of her own but because of the magic she was born with and their mother's preferential treatment. When you are going through the exact same life experiences and developmental stages at the same time as your twin it becomes much easier to compare yourself to them, I think, and I felt that undercurrent of comparison and unworthiness as well as the desire to shape his own path in Akeha's story. I'd also be remiss if I didn't mention the treatment of gender in this novella, which was novel and refreshing. In Yang's world children are raised in gender neutrality, using the pronoun "they" until they decide what gender they want to spend their lives as. I think it's an amazing way of incorporating genders beyond the binary into a fantasy setting while calling the essentialized, dichotomous nature of that binary into question in the first place and also establishing a thought-provoking statement about the way we raise our children in reality. Furthermore, the division between Akeha and Mokoya becomes all the more complex when they become different genders.In my view this novella's main failings have principally to do with the fact that so much story takes place over such a short page count. A great deal of plot is packed into this novella, and I think the pacing and emotional resonance suffered for it. You don't, for instance, really get to see the romances develop at all and they end up feeling rather insta-love-y. I would have also appreciated really digging down into the motivations behind decisions like Aheta's decision to join the rebellion. In short the bones of an excellent story are all there, but I could definitely have used much more fleshing out in their delivery.