10 trillion stars/5“This is the problem with making a thing forbidden. It does nothing but build an ache in the heart.”  Words cannot even begin to describe how much I loved The Language of Thorns. I am trying to find the right words but I can't. The best way to express my love is through this gif.In all seriousness though, I really loved this book. Everything about this book, from the words to the drawings to the stories is just stunning and beautiful and breathtaking and every other synonym that is related to beautiful. It was that good. I have admired Leigh's writing style before, but this one takes the cake with cherries on top. It really felt like I was reading actual fairy tales. The Language of Thorns takes inspiration from different fairy tales and Leigh tells them in such a unique way so that it belongs to the Grishaverse. You got ones that are like Hansel and Gretel, Beauty and the Beast, and the Little Mermaid. Except imagine them dark, twisted, and beautiful. My kind of fairytales. And yes, I know the original fairytales were dark, but Leigh does it in a way that makes them even more unique. In the book, there are 3 new stories and 3 other ones that were originally in e-book format. Those are: The Too-Clever Fox, The Witch of Duva, and Little Knife. I have not read them but now I'm glad they were in this book.These stories are not what they appear at first glance. I knew I was in for some dark and twisted stuff since the tales are from the Grishaverse. Even still, I was surprised by the stories and the characters because I am not kidding when I say the stories are dark. No rainbows, puppies, and sunshine in this book, kiddos.If I had to choose a favorite story, it would have to be When Water Sang Fire. I loved that story mainly because of the characters, the lyrical writing, how Leigh takes mermaids/sirens and turns it into something different. (It also helped that I was listening to This because of the whole siren aspect of it.)And, a certain dark character appears. (Hello Darkling. 😙 *proceeds to make out with the Darkling*)I really don't have anything negative to say about the stories. Yeah, some of them can be long, but the stories help with the pacing, especially if you really like the writing and the stories. I just love everything about the Grishaverse. And, it was recently announced that Leigh is coming back to the Grishaverse with a duology that is centered around Nikolai!
Verdict
I absolutely loved this book. Everything about it was lovely. I highly recommend this if you really are a fan of the Grishaverse or just like fairytales.Thanks for reading my review!-Cesar