I just love the Grisha Trilogy, and “The Language of Thorns” is the icing on the cake. These six original stories are broken up into different regions: with three stories coming from Ravka, and the rest from Novyi Zem, Kerch, and Fjerda. Those who have not read Leigh Bardugo’s work are not necessarily required to read her previous novels to understand the stories. They can be enjoyed as simply that: stories.Bardugo has nailed the fireside tale telling feel -- it’s like you can feel the warmth of the fire on your face, the cold nipping the back of your ears, and see her face lit up by the flames as she regales you with dark tales at midnight.“Ayama and the Thorn Wood” is a really enjoyable tone-setter for the series, getting you into the voice, style, and tone of the collection, all the while telling a story of bravery. “The Too-Clever Fox” is a fun story with a pretty gnarly climax. I didn’t guess the plot twist until it was too late, and there were a couple of moments where my skin crawled. “The Witch of Duva” felt the closest to the fairy tales I remember from my childhood, but Bardugo, as she does so well in this collection, writes an excellent twist. This is one of my favorites.As expected, “Little Knife” had a wonderful twist I didn’t see coming. There is a very strong message in this tale that I enjoyed reading immensely. This story is gorgeous.“The Soldier Prince” is a pretty haunting and odd tale that built its momentum from about half-way after being a bit of a slow starter. Bardugo has done a magnificent job of creating a magical mystery as the nutcracker tries to work out what he is, his reality, and what he wants in life.“When Water Sang Fire” is a novella that had my least favorite start to any entry in this collection, but became the best story in the book -- hands down! This story drew out a lot of emotions from me: I felt joy, sadness, anger, and a need for revenge. It was a perfect way to finish the collection -- a tale of friendship and of being different, and of loyalty and betrayal. I need a sequel for this!Each tale is as mesmerizing as it is enjoyable and, combined with Sara Kipin’s illustrations, “The Language of Thorns” achieves a storybook quality. Every illustration draws out more curious details that fill up the border of each page as the story progresses. When the story is complete, readers are given a full double-spread of artwork to accompany the tale.These stories offer no simple architecture of good and evil, but force you to live inside their clockworks -- fear and desire twisted together into that ideal mix that speaks both to children, intimating that the world isn't all pastels and candy, and adults who already know its dangers far too well. These tales are the epitome of brutal honesty and distorted reality.“Love speaks in flowers. Truth requires thorns.”