I liked the hell out of Among Others in part because the novel makes me feel like I belong. This is my tribe. All that. And I don't feel like I belong often. So yay, Ms. Walton! You deserve all the awards you can stuff in your bulging suitcases. That said, I can't recommend this book if you're not one of the tribe. What tribe? The nerdy science fiction reading tribe. If your membership has lapsed you'll probably still enjoy Among Others, don't worry, but if you've not felt (sadly, proudly, or a mix of both) socially inept and found solace in science fiction at one point or another, read another book. I don't intend to sound mean, but goddammit, all you other people got to kiss in middle school and probably didn't know the local librarians by name and, in retrospect, didn't feel their pitying gaze as you read by the window three nights a week. So leave this book for us. Okay? Thanks. Fuckers. I recognize that some of you might love science fiction AND functioned well socially, but I don't know what to make of you, so I'm not speaking to you. Among Others focuses on a teenage girl who lands, after watching her twin sister die and running away from her evil witch mother, at her distant father's house. In turn her aunts ship her off to a decidedly not-Hogwarts boarding school. She has a limp, and she's Welsh, neither of which apparently add to one's popularity in these scenarios. The novel takes the form of the girl's journals. Shut up, if you groaned I'm kicking your shins. Morwenna (the girl) is smart but not faultless, observant but not always accurate. And she reads. A lot. And she writes about books in her journal, real books, I mean, at least some of which even casual science fiction readers will recognize. I'm partial to the Zelazny she cites (esp. the Amber books) but disagree with her PK Dick dismissal. Eventually Mor (who can see fairies) either finds or creates (your call) a science fiction club and meets a boy who may or may not be worth her time. Still, even with the “mysterious boy” angle, if a librarian/bookstore clerk were to place this book next to the shopworn paranormal teen romances that person should be fired. This book belongs (there's that word again) on a different shelf. I'm not sure Among Others has a start-to-finish plot as much as a dreamy, fascinating progression. The book's strengths lie in Morwenna's voice and the assumption that the reader gets all the insider literary references. Instead of rendering science fiction palatable to the outsider, Ms. Walton gives the finger to readers who can't keep up. Or maybe, more positively phrased, she creates a conversation respectful of lifelong readers. I don't mean to sound snotty. I'm more thrilled to feel that sense of belonging. Everyone's invited. But not everyone takes up the invitation. Among Others is a blast, and the last few pages build to a moving, beautiful finish. Well done, Ms. Walton. I'm proud to know you. I hope I'm not impertinent in feeling I do. Secret handshakes all around.