“You can’t be yourself unless you have a leash in your hand, and there’s always got to be someone attached to it.”So What’s It About?Touraine is a soldier. Stolen as a child and raised to kill and die for the empire, her only loyalty is to her fellow conscripts. But now, her company has been sent back to her homeland to stop a rebellion, and the ties of blood may be stronger than she thought.Luca needs a turncoat. Someone desperate enough to tiptoe the bayonet's edge between treason and orders. Someone who can sway the rebels toward peace, while Luca focuses on what really matters: getting her uncle off her throne.Through assassinations and massacres, in bedrooms and war rooms, Touraine and Luca will haggle over the price of a nation. But some things aren't for sale.What I ThoughtHave we, as spec fic readers, not been blessed with a showering of anticolonialist works over the past few years? It’s something that I’m personally delighted by, and I’ve been making a point of trying to read as many of them as possible lately. I’d been highly anticipating The Unbroken and...well, I’ll admit that I might be just a little bit disappointed with it now that I’ve read it. I think a lot of my nonplussed feelings stem from the fact that it’s really hard to write morally conflicted characters well. In this book there are two of them, and I don’t feel like their characterization was ever thoroughly satisfying to me. Luca, in particular, is kind of a giant mess with motivations that bounce all over the place. One minute she’s all about reform and common humanity and improving things in the empire and the next she’s appointing the brutal Beau-Sang as leader and taking healers as prisoners. I don’t think there’s anything wrong with writing a character who is conflicted and makes opposing decisions, but I think it really helps to show the factors that make them veer one way or another and how they grapple with these decisions internally. I didn’t really see that with Luca.Touraine is a much stronger character overall, but I was really hoping that the book would dig deeper into her process of unlearning the rules and strictures imposed on her by Balladaire’s imperialism. There are moments where she questions her world and experiences cognitive dissonance, but I still think this exploration could have been a lot juicier, and more build-up of this kind would have made her decision to join the rebels a lot stronger. The other thing about Touraine is that she makes a number of decisions with terrible consequences to protect her unit, the Sands, but I never really felt the emotional connection there, no matter how many times the narration said they were family. I also wish that we knew more about the culture and magic in Touraine’s homeland. The magic felt a little deus ex machina-y and the culture only vaguely outlined. This book could have been a great opportunity for the reader to learn more about the country as Touraine reclaimed her heritage so I can’t help but feel that it was a bit of a missed opportunity. I love that we’re getting so many messy queer relationships where complex power dynamics are explored, and Luca and Touraine have one such fraught relationship. Despite herself, Touraine wants to be wanted by Luca and she mercenarily wants the practical benefits that would come from belonging to her and being under her protection. It’s extremely messed up and interesting, but again I can’t help but feel that it could have been explored more. Luca and Touraine make huge decisions that stem from their feelings about each other but I never really understood where those feelings came from other than lust. I think The Unbroken excels when it meditates on the predicament of the colonized - the constant shame and indoctrination; the simultaneous hope of things getting better if you just play by the rules and do as you’re told and pain of punishment and fear that keeps you in line as well; the desire to advance in the colonizer’s approval that is ultimately impossible to attain when the colonizer doesn’t see you as an equal human being. We see the reality of the colonizer’s so-called beneficence in the way that the colonized people have to pay for the privilege of protection and the ways that they speak of “improving” the uncivilized. I think that different kinds of colonizers are also depicted well. Luca’s sense of identity largely revolves around being more humane than the rest of her people, but she is still willing to enact a massacre to get herself on the throne. There are people from Balladaire who are sympathetic to the colonized for a variety of reasons, and yet they nevertheless still have power over them in a way that is inherently violent.  It’s always interesting to me to see how different authors handle writing systems of oppression in fantasy worlds. In this case, Clark chose to make the colonizing power Balladaire seemingly queernorm and gender equal. I think my preference ultimately tends to be for worlds that demonstrate how different kinds of oppression intersect and compound and feed off one another, but I know there are readers who have different preferences. I should also note that Balladaire largely seems to be queernorm and gender equal but the glaring exception to this is Touraine’s fellow soldier who routinely torments her with threats of sexual violence. I can’t really put my finger on what caused this reaction for me, but something about the writing made me feel incredibly distant from the story for most of the book. For some reason it was very easy to start skimming, after which I’d have to retrace my steps. I think part of it might be the relatively straightforward and unadorned writing style combined with the characterization that I wasn’t completely on board with. Maybe?? I’m not entirely sure. I think there’s a lot to recommend The Unbroken, but an equal amount that holds it back from truly excellent in my regard.