"How do you—" Kettle abandoned the question in favour of "Why do you want to find Nona?" "We planned to visit the ice together." Zole almost shrugged, turned away as if embarrassed. "She is the Shield. I am not supposed to lose her." "I didn't think you believed in all that Chosen One stuff?" Kettle crossed to the first two attackers and stooped to recover her throwing stars with the aid of a knife. "I do not." "Why then?" The second star came loose with a wet noise. Somewhere behind Kettle, Zole spoke in a voice almost too quiet to hear. "She is my friend."That is my absolute favorite scene in Grey Sister, the second volume of the Book of the Ancestor trilogy, and a book filled with so many amazing scenes. Grey Sister builds on the wonderful qualities of Red Sister, as already detailed in my review of that book.Grey Sister is full of action—there is never a dull moment. But what I like most about this book is its wonderful cast of characters. The novice and purported "Chosen One" Zole is a favorite of mine. I love to see how she grows and starts to express her emotions, especially in her friendship with Nona. We also get to know Sister Kettle a lot better, who is an awesome character in every respect.Nona grows so much in Grey Sister as she battles a literal demon, Keot, who embedded himself within her after escaping the dying body of Raymel Tacsis at the end of Red Sister. Keot provides a lot of dark humor as he pushes Nona toward the most violent solution to any problem. But Nona doesn't let Keot compromise her core belief in friendship, even when certain people may be undeserving of that friendship. Considering Mark Lawrence's five published trilogies, there is strong empirical evidence that he rejects the concept of a sophomore slump. His trilogies always start off with a strong first book and then just keep getting better from there. Grey Sister is no different: Mark Lawrence builds on his already strong foundation of Red Sister and takes the story off to new heights. And it just gets better still in Holy Sister, the final volume of the trilogy.I can't help but compare Grey Sister to other noted second books. Nona Grey has some common features as Rin, the main character of R.F. Kuang's The Poppy War trilogy, as well as Kvothe, the main character of Patrick Rothfuss's The Kingkiller Chronicle. Like Rin, Nona has an inner demon driving her toward violence. The difference is that Nona is able to fight the demon, whereas Rin just gives in to the violence. As a result, Nona has much more compelling character development than Rin across the full trilogy. Like Kvothe, Nona overcomes an impoverished childhood to be enrolled at an elite magic school, but then must flee the school after being framed for expulsion-worthy conduct by an obnoxious rich classmate. But again, there is a key difference in character development. While Kvothe wanders around aimlessly for most of The Wise Man's Fear, Nona uses this opportunity to confront her past and truly grow as a character. This growth is what makes Grey Sister so much more effective as a second volume compared to either The Dragon Republic or The Wise Man's Fear.If you will indulge me, I'd like to spend the final part of this review on some personal speculations regarding the magic system in The Book of the Ancestor. While Mark Lawrence's trilogies can each be fully enjoyed on their own, there are subtle connections across all five of his trilogies which paint a bigger picture of the "Lawrenceverse." Considering these connections, my speculations concerning the Four Tribes on Abeth are: 1. Gerant - Those with gerant blood grow very large, much like Gorgoth in The Broken Empire. This abnormally large growth may be the result of a mutation caused by the nuclear war which destroyed the Builders' civilation and ultimately led to the post-apocalyptic world of The Broken Empire.2. Hunska - Those with hunska blood can move fantastically fast. This quickness may be a result of relativistic time scales, such as discussed in the Impossible Times trilogy, where scientists were able to develop technology to control the relative passage of time. Hunskas may seem fantastically fast, but maybe they just slowed down the clock for the rest of us.3. Marjal - They have access to the lesser magics, including mastery of the elements. An example of this is Nona's flaw-blades. Marjal powers may relate to having increased mental control over the collapse of the quantum mechanical wavefunction, which was alluded to extensively in The Red Queen's War triology, especially The Wheel of Osheim.4. Quantal - Quantals "can access the raw power of the Path and manipulate the threads that are woven to create reality." This builds on marjal powers and also seems to include the power of quantum entanglement. The thread bonds that are developed between characters with quantal powers are certainly reminiscent of quantum entanglement. Plus, it's right there in the name: quantal.All of this is just speculation. We may learn answers to these questions in The Girl and the Moon, the third Book of the Ice, when it is published soon! Meanwhile, this is a great time to read or reread The Book of the Ancestor trilogy.