Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.2.5 stars. While relatively entertaining, this book lacks originality and is far too predictableThis one is a struggle for me, as virtually every single one of my friends who has reviewed this book has given it stellar reviews. I have heard non-stop about how wonderful this series is, and I have been looking forward to reading it for quite some time.Unfortunately, as I began to read this book it became quickly obvious that this book is not a fantasy book, it's a historical fiction. I did get the vibe from the first book that something was off, but I couldn't put my finger exactly on it - it was very clear that Nikara was China, and even looked like it on a map - and there were multiple references to Sun Tzu, which seemed odd to reference a real life person in a fantasy book. After reading the book and trying to investigate this more, it became clear that the first book is telling the story of the Second Sino-Japanese War - a war that I had very little knowledge of until doing my research after reading.So I went into The Dragon Republic wondering what was next for this series but feeling leery. I am a big fan of Early/mid 1900s world history, and the connections to this book and the Chinese Civil War are endless. Every single one of the major characters and nations is very specifically referring to something from that real life war. Nikara is China, Mugen is Japan, Speer is Taiwan, Rin is Mao, Vaisra is Chiang Kai-Shek - and the list goes on. So as someone who is intimately familiar with this event, this book lacked originality and was extremely predictable from start to finish, and ruined so much of the enjoyment for me, and it ended up being a chore for me to read it.Trying to set that aside though, I have thoroughly enjoyed the magic system in this book - it's fresh, fun, and a thrill to read about. But unfortunately it's quite literally the only original thing in this book. The lack of originality could be set aside if the characters and dialogue was a joy to read, but I find myself disliking the main protagonist, which is always an enormous problem. I felt connected to her in the first book, and the trauma and resulting emotions that she went through I found compelling. I suppose this is inevitable since the biographies of Mao I have read resulted in me hating him as well, but nonetheless it's frustrating to read.I'll probably end up reading the final book, but my interest in this series has dropped significantly.