Ten year old me is currently hurt because I re-read a childhood book and it turns out it... wasn’t good  *Crickets chirp as I re-read Twilight* So we’ve basically got Cassia who lives in this SoCietY (Joker memes rise up) where they’ve got one hundred of everything (books, poems, films etc.) because the old world was full of clutter or something. (I mean, one hundred is still a supremely small number though, like even a thousand probably makes more sense). Anyway, everything is chosen for you - your job, when you die, your MATCH. Teenagers are “matched” with someone who will be their partner for life. And Cassia gets her best friend, Xander who’s super nice and cool except what’s this? Someone else is matched to her for like a second. It’s Ky, the aberration, the ultimate emo-boy. The officials basically explain it was a joke, but Cassia’s all like “nooo, I don’t think so.” So she decides to go out and get to know this boy, fall in love etc. I don’t hate this book, it’s just.... well it’s a book. It adds nothing new or intriguing or different to make it stand out. The writing is pretty simplistic, but it gets the job done. And I don’t particularly hate the characters. Cassia makes good decisions and develops as she works out this controlling society is not all it’s cracked up to be. Xander is nice, if not a little boring. Ky is pretty emo - he has a tough life, he composes poetry, he can write! (Characters can type on computers, but don’t know how to  actually  write. Strange.) The romance is actually okay too. Neither boys are mean or possessive, in fact both of them respect her and aren’t trying to flirt with her all the time. Like that is not easy to find in YA fiction these days.The plot is what’s boring. It’s really just about Cassia discovering she may like this dude and she should be allowed  make her own choices . Revelations. I liked the world, but apparently it’s all stolen from The Giver, so that’s disappointing. The ending was actually interesting and I’ll probably read the other two books for fun. However, as I re-enter the world of childhood memories, this was probably a gentle stepping stone before it all goes downhill :)