“All stories have been told before. We tell them to ourselves, as did all men who ever were. And all men who ever will be. The only things new are the names.”-	Brandon Sanderson, Words of RadianceThe most difficult thing about discussing Brandon Sanderson’s Words of Radiance is that it is part of a much larger work-in-progress. This is the second book of the so-called Stormlight Archive. So far, three books of this series have been published (The Way of Kings is the first book, Oathbringer is the third). Each of these mammoth novels has totaled more than a thousand pages in length. The fourth, Rhythm of War, is scheduled for publication in November. It, too, is over a thousand pages long. Quite a bit over, it seems. Thus, we are in the midst of a project that is already giving Marcel Proust’s expansive In Search of Lost Time a run for its money, at least in terms of page-and-word count. Every single one of these four books would be prodigiously daunting on their own. However, they are merely the opening entries of a planned ten-novel opus. The ending of such grand ventures, as we have repeatedly seen in literature and life, is never guaranteed. But if things go on as they have gone before, we may be looking at more than 10,000 pages of high fantasy, when all is said and done.  In short, it’s really hard to discern where Words of Radiance truly fits in the overall scheme. It is also really hard to come up with a plot summary that doesn’t start to get as long as the actual plot it is describing. Suffice to say, Words of Radiance picks up almost exactly where The Way of Kings ended. This makes sense, since Sanderson is not much for making big time-leaps. His narrative typically proceeds day-by-day and week-by-week, partially accounting for the aforementioned page counts (which I will really try to stop mentioning). As before, Sanderson is working in the third-person limited, following a manageable handful of viewpoint characters (with some additional cameos during the “Interludes” sections, which are offshoots from the main storyline). The three main viewpoint characters are Kaladin, Shallan, and Dalinar, with lesser space given to Adolin (Dalinar’s son), Renarin (Dalinar’s other son), Navani (mother to the king, and tepid love interest to Dalinar), and Sadeas (the main human bad guy). It is a credit to Sanderson that – despite not giving us much of an overall roadmap – he engages our interest almost immediately. He accomplishes this by changing the tone and rhythm of Words of Radiance from that of its predecessor. The Way of Kings was brutal, bloody, and action-packed, featuring numerous massive battles. Words of Radiance is different, and makes a conscious attempt to avoid repetitiveness. Instead of titanic clashes of arms, there is a lot of plotting, sneaking, and spying. There are some great set-pieces, including an incredible multi-person duel, but the focus is on the subtler side of the overarching conflict. Even when there is a battle, Sanderson tells it from a different perspective than in the first book, so it’s not just a bloody hack-a-thon redux. In The Way of Kings, Kaladin, the former slave, traveled a long road from involuntary servitude to soldier to proto-superhero. Now, he is in the uncomfortable position of not having much to do. Much of his story in this volume consists of nursing old grudges (which is wearying), having rather weak philosophical debates with himself, and leveling-up a bit more, so that he becomes almost boring, in the way that invulnerable heroes are boring. He is also given a huge case of Plot Required Stupidity (PRS), a medically-diagnosable condition in which an otherwise smart character does unfathomably stupid things to keep the plot moving along. Unfortunately, even with PRS, Kaladin’s arc is pretty flat. Sanderson gives him some minor hurdles to overcome, but they are so readily surmountable that it feels like padding. Thankfully, Shallan – who can be said to split time with Kaladin as the “main” character – is finally set free. In The Way of Kings, she spent most of her time standing still and having things explained to her. Now, on the move, she gets to prove herself in tight scrapes, while also learning more about her special abilities, abilities that will prove important, what with the world fast coming to an end (the coming apocalypse has something to do with “Voidbringers” and the “Desolation,” but it’s way too early for me to pay close attention to that). In recognition of her rising importance, Shallan is given the honor of having a series of flashback chapters, which – in contrast to Kaladin’s flashbacks in book one – are as emotionally affecting and intriguing as anything else in Words of Radiance. The other human characters – Dalinar, Adolin, Navani, etc. – are just fine. They are all rendered with care by Sanderson. The problem, however, is that none of them have much in the way of psychological depth. Take Sadeas as an example. He is supposed to be a nasty dude, yet with complicated motivations. Despite Sanderson’s intentions, though, Sadeas is a milquetoast mustache-twirler, presenting no real threat. In other words, he’s no Tywin Lannister. Heck, he’s not even Cobra Commander. Unlike other fantasy authors one could name, Sanderson seems to have a very good grasp on his story. His writing is meticulous in the way that it identifies details and concepts that will later pay off in big ways. It is nice to know that even as this tale expands – and it is always expanding, geographically and character-wise – Sanderson won’t write himself into a corner from which he cannot escape. Still, there is a downside to this sort of rigorous control. Specifically, Words of Radiance lacks any feeling of spontaneity. I get the sense that the characters are all on predestined paths, and that nothing is going to happen to them until they have fulfilled their destinies (or their plot requirements). In other words, this book – like the first – lacks any sense of danger. Sure, Sanderson tries his hand at shaking up the board, but he displays a tendency to pull his punches. Now, I am not advocating that authors should kill major characters simply for the shock factor. Without careful planning and execution (pun intended), such surprises are cheap, and seldom carry lasting emotional impact. That said, without evidence of high stakes, all the talk about a hypothetical Armageddon – and all the terrible Proper Nouns that come with said Armageddon – lands with the weight of a feather. Nonetheless, Words of Radiance is an eminently worthy follow-up to The Way of Kings. I liked it a bit less, and I saw the problematic features a bit more, but it is still a big chunk of fiction that moves with assuredness and grace. The pacing is excellent. The money shots are cinematically rendered. The dialogue – despite all the portentous verbiage – is generally pretty slick. Sanderson clearly enjoys wordplay, and he lets his characters enjoy it as well. More than anything, Words of Radiance revels in the joy of world-building. Sanderson takes you to vividly rendered places, and describes marvelously complex systems of religion, culture, and magic. For example, Sanderson delves deeply into the creatures known as the Parshendi, who have an utterly fascinating way of structuring their society and communicating with each other. The scope and depth of Sanderson’s imagination is really something else. Of course, I am not entirely sure how long exotic locations, creatures, and customs can hold my attention. Two-thousand pages in, I have not yet formed any strong emotional bonds to Kaladin, Shallan, or anyone else. More than that, I am not sure that my esteem for Sanderson’s advanced ability to create an immersive fantasy realm is enough to keep me committed to this venture, at least not enough to finish an eventual ten books. Whether I continue or not, Words of Radiance is both impressive and memorable in its transportive abilities. Sanderson has an uncanny ability to make you think this place of wild storms, disappearing swords, and women who hide their left hands is real. In the end, the flaws of Words of Radiance pale before the vastness of this series’ ambitions.