FIVE THOUSAND STARS out of fiveHighly-recommended. My new favorite.A read for The Quarterly Book Club’s Fourth Quarter: Historical Fiction “So the question becomes, Daughter of the Dragon, what will you sacrifice? What will you let be taken away so that you, too, can have power?”This was my first time to read a book by this author and I will definitely check out her other works. Her writing is exceptionally exquisite. She was able to rebuild a long-gone world in my head and piqued my curiosity into getting to know more about this part of history, its culture, and the people behind it. It was an unforgettable and intense experience that would stay with me for a long time. I do have a book hangover. I was already planning to reread it the moment I reached its last sentence.I have never read anything like this before! Kiersten White’s And I Darken is a dangerous gamble of hearts and of power that you would want to get caught up in.This is such a brave and greatly interesting approach to history. I am in awe of how the author played with these facts, bridging gaps between historical records, in a thought-provoking way. Her unbiased story has a diamond heart at its center. It answers the question: “What are you willing to sacrifice to gain what you want the most?”At a young age, Vlad III and his younger brother Radu were brought into the Ottoman courts. There they lived for years and have been educated just so their father could keep the throne of Wallachia, a vassal state of the Ottoman Empire, for himself.Here’s how the story went in Kiersten White’s masterpiece: Instead of Vlad III, we get Ladislav “Lada” Dragwyla in his place. This gender switch in the character let the author focus on and deal with the issues of women during the medieval era in terms of power. Is it possible for a woman to rule an empire? How could a woman acquire power if her only role in society is to be a property of men, producing heirs, giving pleasure, and just being a wife?Lada was a selfish and ruthless girl. As a child, she had always looked up to her father, wanting nothing but to please him more than her brothers could ever do. She never wanted to be like her mother who was weak, always begging for her life. Lada’s father showed her that the woman who gave birth to her was not her real mother but Wallachia itself. This led Lada to believe that Wallachia was hers for the taking and that one day, she would be the one to sit on its throne. I think I have never read a character as tough and cunning as her. She was intriguing and I was watching out for her every decision. It seemed like, even though she was held captive in a foreign land, she always knew her way out of trouble, manipulating a situation in every way she could. She was unafraid of anyone. It was very creative of the author to nickname Ladislav “Lada”. I just found out that it is the name of the Slavic goddess of beauty, love, harmony, and merriment. Isn’t it ironic that our female protagonist was named after her despite having the opposite characteristics of this said deity?Radu, Lada’s younger brother whom she always considered as one of her properties, was her complete opposite. Unlike Lada who was born brave and ugly, Radu was fragile and very beautiful. He grew up clinging to their nurse all the time and wanting nothing but to be taken care of by her. He was always treated as an underdog by his older siblings, physically and emotionally hurting him. Radu saw the world with meekness. At first, I wanted to ignore Radu because of his weakness, but as I got more hooked by their tale, I realized that I was getting attracted to him more than I expected.These two saw their captivity in different ways. Lada saw it as something she should escape, while Radu found a new home and enlightenment, especially in Mehmed, the Sultan’s third and least favorite son. The three grew up together, influencing the course of their decisions, changing their fates together with that of the whole empire.The Dragwyla siblings each have their good and admirable sides. I greatly approve the way these two have changed throughout the span of years. Radu became strong and cunning on his own, while Lada became more caring and affectionate in her own way. It was as if, by the end of the book, they were finally able to meet halfway.I really find Mehmed absolutely interesting, first, because of his culture. I have never read a book on Islam so it was eye-opening to me to see his situation both as a Muslim and as an heir to the throne. His duties and responsibilities as an important Ottoman figure, which his people would find honorable and pleasing, could be hurtful or taboo to Lada and Christians like her. Second, I love the way his character developed. I was able to really see him shed his boyhood. The change in his priorities, the way he acts, his strength—all of them eclipsed the boy that Lada and Radu first met.Among these three, guess which one of them is my favorite character.It’s Radu. I adore him definitely. At first, I thought that I would stick to Lada ‘til the end, but Radu was just able to pull at my heartstrings the way Lada was not able to. Radu started as a boy whom you would disregard no matter what he did, but as he grew up, it was not the way his looks were described that caught my attention, it was his heart. He was at war with his emotions all the time and would sacrifice his happiness for those whom he loved. Between him and Lada, I could say that he’s been making the greater sacrifices. In the end,  I understood his choice. It was the first time that he finally chose his happiness.The romance of this book got me torn in half. Well, not actually, but I was so confused for a few moments. Guess which ship I’m on! I’m on the Mehdu or Ramed ship! Whatever that’s called. Yes, I want Mehmed to end up with Radu. Why? I think it could work better than if he would end up with Lada. I think Lada would just trample Mehmed. Sooner or later, they would just hurt each other. The two of them aren’t on one, same side. It felt to me that their relationship and feelings for each other were so strained as if they’re playing tug of war, and not one of them would want to let go of the rope. I think, as a leader, Mehmed would need one like Radu by his side. He needs someone to help him conquer the world and be what he was destined to be. Also, based on what I’ve found out through google, scholars and researchers said that it was possible that the real Mehmed the Conqueror and Radu the Handsome had a relationship with each other. It was said that Radu first became a male concubine of the Sultan Murad, and then of Mehmed afterwards. If the author wanted to stick to historical records to make her series more accurate, I think it would be best that Mehmed would end up with Radu. Also, Vlad III (Lada) eventually became enemies with Mehmed. They were at constant war with each other because Vlad would not submit to the Ottoman Empire. Radu even helped Mehmed in going against Wallachia. But, anyway, it’s the author’s choice. Let her do her magic. She’s the creator, not me.Lastly, the ending was, without a doubt, amazing and a powerful one at that. It was earnest and necessary as a turning point for all of them. Lada and Radu made their choices, both of them choosing what they thought were right. I can’t wait any longer for the sequel! I have a feeling that it would shatter its readers and leave us all in an emotional mess. I could already hear Future Me screaming my head off.If you have not read this book yet, my friend, you have to get a copy very soon. You would not want to miss this. Don’t add this to your regret list, if you even have a list for that. I highly recommend this to Ottoman Empire and historical fiction enthusiasts, and to everyone.