"She would never toss aside her country the way her father had. She would protect it. A small sob threatened to break free. What could she do? She had no power. Yet, she vowed. She had no power yet."Can I get a high five for reached expectations? Bring it in, come on.And I Darken is YA at its finest. There were times when I questioned if it should be classified as NA/Adult because the themes it deals with and the characters' thought processes get pretty dark. And then there's the history/world-building element, which is oh so rich and layered, but I worry may fly over the head for younger readers.It's mature YA, let's put it that. Teens deserve more credit.I have a bone to pick with the blurb, by the way. It in no way prepared for this gem of a character named Radu, also known as Lada's younger brother."There are other ways to beat someone than with fists."His character arc is magnificent. Shy and physically weak, Radu has always been overshadowed by his fierce sister. He idolizes her, relies on her to protect him. Once they get to the Ottoman empire though, he realizes Lada's definition of fighting, through her fists, is useless and steps up to the plate as a Varys/Tyrion hybrid. He schmoozes up to the nobility, gains their trust, learns their secrets and just like that, he becomes one of the most powerful men in the nation.That's what I love about And I Darken. It portrays different kinds of power: soft and hard, subtle and obvious. It shows there is power to be found in the unexpected: women and femininity. The main reason I'm not 100% in love with Lada is she acts rather condescending towards women who embrace traditional female roles. "You should have fought them. You should have escaped.""To where? I was angry, for many years. And frightened. But there are many ways to be powerful. There is power in stillness. There is power in watching, waiting, saying the right thing at the right time to the right person. There is power in being a woman—oh yes, power in these bodies you gaze upon with derision...When you have something someone else wants, there is always an element of power."To be fair, she changes. After meeting Mara (one of the sultan's wives who won peace for her country by agreeing to an arranged marriage) and Huma (Mehmed's mother who seized power through her body), she begins to long for female companionship and acknowledges "threads" of power can be found in unexpected places. Though I wish Lada could've changed more. She still considers herself better than these women and I look forward to her opinion shifting further in the sequel.Make no mistake; I do adore Lada to pieces. Especially her decision at the end and this quote, which I will use in a wedding toast someday:“On our wedding night,” she said, “I will cut out your tongue and swallow it. Then both tongues that spoke our marriage vows will belong to me, and I will be wed only to myself. You will most likely choke to death on your own blood, which will be unfortunate, but I will be both husband and wife and therefore not a widow to be pitied.”There is a love triangle and it will absolutely break you.  It's not two guys vying for one girl, like I thought would be at first. Everyone is sort of tangled with each other. Quite a bit of angst is involved, but it never feels cliche or melodramatic. White set up the situation so well and the characters so beautifully, it feels exactly as it ought to be: poignant and heartwrenching. Very rarely does a tagline comparison deliver. And I Darken is indeed Game of Thrones for teens. It's filled with political intrigue, power struggles, and lots and lots of feels."There is no such thing as cheating. There is only winning or losing. I won." My review of Now I Rise My review of Bright We Burn