Kiersten White deciding to write this: "Diversity win! The ottoman warlord desecrating your small village is a bottom!" (original post on tumblr by @saltysalmonkid)(This was initially a way longer review, detailing all the way in which the author shat all over my country's history. Please be aware whatever you think of saying to me about my low rating, I've probably heard it already. People saying "but it is fantasy" do not understand that my issue is not with a poorly written FICTION, but by one which used my HISTORY as a marketing technique, to then stomp over every single thing my ancestors took pride in. She could have just written a fantasy on its own (Grishaverse style), but if she decided to use a feminized version of Vlad the Impaler, then she should be able to swallow the situation in which someone points out the inaccuracies. But no one cares about those from small and poor countries with weird languages and convoluted histories anyway, right? )This woman just doesn't know how to stop. Now she is going to write a retelling of Dracula... which is in itself a xenophobic depiction of Romanians, haha, lovely!! :) I got annoyed, so here's a breakdown of some of the most obvious, painful atrocities she added to this book:- Red flag!! From the reason of why she decided to write this book!! Oh, her husband went on a religious conversion mission to my country, and she thought she knows enough about it now to write about it? Wrong, wrong, wrong!! - The protagonist's name is 1) actually masculine if we follow the rules of the languages she decided to write a book inspired by 2) it means "wooden box" in Romanian. So this should very obviously point to the fact that absolutely no research has gone into this book supposedly retelling the life of one of the most important figures in my country's history- The narrative constantly calls Romanian peasants and all other ethnicities within the area "pigs" and other such words. You will NEVER find a ruler fighting against Ottoman rule call its subjects something like that, and it is in fact just attempting to hide blatant xenophobia with 'history'- Speaking of, pretending that Vlad the Impaler is nothing but a great ruler to Romanians... like, was he cruel and firm? Yes. Did he keep invasion at bay, and the torture he's most famous for was inspired from his political imprisonment at the Ottoman court? Also yes, and we love him for it and we are possibly a country thanks to it.- It's clear no care has been given to the turbulent history of the day. Starting from the very stale brand of white feminism (god forbid a father was happy he got a daughter! when it didn't even matter to the nobles back then!) to the utter lack of critical thinking on colonialism, tribute paying, political imprisonment and forced religion conversion (betting 10 dollars she doesn't know what half of those words mean).- Do I honestly look like I care when people argue it is a 'fiction'? Again, if thousands of readers learn about my country's existence from this book, then that is an immense damage left to reign free that will never be undone.I am SO tired of americans being allowed to write the most VILE shit about countries that half of their population doesn't even know exists. And when I know the care can be there, the research can be done, then I am not going to be forgiving for purposeful ignorance.