I had to take some time to really think about this book and what my feelings towards it are. And ultimately I’ve decided that I think I hate it lol.I loved the first book in this series. It was…kind of trashy reading, you know? But it was FUN and easy to fly through and the world of Crescent City was so vibrant and full of life that I couldn’t get enough. This one even though it was easy to read, and I finished it up pretty quickly, nothing about it really captured me like the first one. So much time was just spent in Bryce’s apartment I felt like, when before we’d been wandering the streets and things like that! Then there’s the added POVs. Tharion’s was so repetitive and most of his scenes could have EASILY been cut with zero consequence to anything, both in terms of his character and the plot. Ithan’s POV also could have been chopped in a lot of parts. A ton of sideplots seemed to be introduced in this one too, but they felt disconnected from the main story and felt like Sarah was just throwing stuff in to throw stuff in. They took time away from sideplots that had been set up in the previous book and were not explored in nearly enough depth here. There are plenty of reveals in this book that I think are meant to be surprising but they all just fall flat. Some are quite obvious. Others are not, simply because they come out of left field and seem very random. The romance was…fine. Until it wasn’t. Until the stupid concept of “mates” reared its ugly head. I’m so over it and it’s just tiring. Really seems like SJM just HAS to make sure we as readers know the characters are meant to be together because of this ridiculous fate thing. You shouldn’t have to rely on this to show that a couple is meant to be together, FYI. It’s not interesting, it’s been done to death (across MULTIPLE SERIES!!) The characters were mostly good still. But…it was very male-centred for most of the book. I would’ve liked to see Bryce interacting with Fury and Juniper more. And at some points, the men’s personalities all just kind of blended together. I think Sarah is stepping up her diversity game (about time lol), because I was happy to see more queer characters and more characters of colour added to the cast, and were present for good chunks of the book. That being said…the writing in this is very constricted to the gender binary. Things are described as “feminine” and “masculine” and everything is just all watered down to male and female and blah blah blah. This isn’t new for SJM, but I would just hope that after how many books this issue would at least start being resolved.The ending. The ENDING. The whole reason I needed to really take time to think about everything in this book. Because what a disaster. I’m gonna go into spoilers for the ending for the next two paragraphs so skip if you don’t want that!!Last spoiler warning….ok. So Bryce jumps into a portal to take her to another world to prevent herself from being used as the Asteri wish, and to hopefully gain allies from the armies of Hel. BUT she doesn’t end up in Hel, instead landing…in the ACOTAR world. Right outside Rhysand’s palace. And the book ends with Rhysand introducing himself to her. I genuinely don’t get how this was published, because this has to be one of the stupidest things I have ever read in my life and I mean that. So, what, now the ACOTAR characters are gonna be in the third one, presumably as somewhat important characters? Let them GO. They have their own series (that has also gone to shit) and don’t need to be in this one. It feels so lazy and ridiculous. End of spoilers!I’m quite disappointed with this one. House of Earth and Blood was genuinely almost my favourite book of 2020, and this is a mess in so many ways, plot-wise, romance-wise, etc. I can’t imagine I’ll be tuning in for book 3. And this might also be the last I read of Sarah J Maas.