My mind was blown away by it, my attention was absorbed by it, and my heart adored it. I have no hesitation in giving 5 sensational stars for another mind blowing and epic fantasy that is possibly my favourite SJM novel yet.**** NO SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW ****Once again SJM has created an ending that is jaw-droppingly brilliant and one that all her fans are going to adore. We are just left speculating as to how SJM will tie all 'this' together, until the next book.A sensational story in the world of dark fantasy, that is magical and haunting, with an exhilarating plot, powerful world building, a level of suspense that inspires a hungry turn of pages and a brilliant array of characters that I believe are her best cast yet. Ingenious.The Plot “I’m guessing you’re in Sky and Breath.” She went still. Had he struck true? “Why do you say that?” “You remind me of the wind.” He tried to explain. “Powerful and able to cool or freeze with half a thought, shaping the world itself though no one can see you. Only your impact on things.” Sofie, is about to die with one vital piece of “information hidden in her head, information that could very well be the final piece of this war against the Asteri. The blow that could end it all” and so Bryce, Hunt and Ruhn try to unearth the corruption and the devastating truth that cost Danika her life in the last book and now Sofie in this story. This is not a spoiler as it happens in the first chapter but sets up a storyline that will continue well into the book.As worlds collide and the Houses of Crescent City seek to take control, the treachery and danger takes us to the city ships of the queen’s court, the seven levels of hell and the orrery planet solar system as reluctant alliances are forged to prevent the Asteri taking control.However, with an order from the Asteri to lie low or endure a penalty of death, the crew must carve out a strategy where the stakes are high, the game is at a different level, and the people only too willing to betray the daughter of the King of the Autumn Court too numerous.Ignoring the request from her father to strengthen the alliance with the House of Avallen, by marrying Cormac, her cousin, Bryce is left isolated except for her lover and ‘mate’ Hunt and brother Ruhn.Review and comments What makes this my favourite Sarah Maas book yet!!!The Ending ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ The sensational ending just blew me away. I was left speechless and very happy knowing we have a fantastic set up going into the next book. If you have read other SJM series you will adore it. Although it is worth pointing out that you do not need to have read A Court of Thorns and Roses first.Storyline and Plot ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ The plot / subplots are complex, gripping, and captivating and written at a pace that never slows. I loved that multiple sub plots were introduced rather than having everything centred around the two main characters which has become a common thread in SJM’s books. However, I feel there is room to make these side stories with other people even stronger and shorter because at 800 pages it feels too long, hence the 4.5 stars. Main Characters ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Hunt and Ruhn are adorable, and although I liked Bryce much better in book 2, The connection is still not great. I would like to see the female characters portrayed differently from ‘bad ass bitches’. Writing Style ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Stunning writing and one I connect with although you need to pay attention given the number of subplots and wide ranging 'fantastical' names. However, for an immersive and absorbing read that captured me through the writing, then it can only be 5 stars.Imagination ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ I am in awe of SJM’s imagination. Ingenious, creative and explosive with settings like the seven levels of hell, orrery of planets and intricate details like the seven star and its representation, the glowing star on Bryce’s chest and symbolic nature of the marks and tattoos. For ‘Love and other words’ ⭐⭐⭐⭐ There is no shortage of passion between the main characters. What I loved about this part of the story was Bryce standing up for her right to choose her own ‘mate’ against her fathers wishes. Even better when she achieved this in such a clever way that blindsided everyone around her, including her father.Book length ⭐⭐ This was too long. The Court of Thorns and Roses was in average 500 pages and was just right. At a huge 800 pages this was too long and more importantly not all the content was needed although written well.Tormenting, imaginative, spellbinding, a fabulous game of brinkmanship, and totally immersive. A book I read over two days and up to ‘stupid o’clock’ in the morning to finish, because I hankered to know how it would all end, and what an ending it was - but no spoilers here!!!! And my advice is please do not read reviews that contain spoilers because the element of surprise will leave you speechless and very happy.I have to confess that this is my favourite book over two series, this and the Court of Thorns and Roses. Unbelievably good and highly recommended.__________________________________I have not re-read but my written review has disappeared so had to create under a new date that seems to have worked. How strange!!!