"We waste so much time. Maybe it's our curse as immortals. To see time as a luxury, a never-ending ocean." °•*⁀➷I loved every moment of this book. I loved every word. I loved every twist, and every turn, and everything in between.Sarah J. Maas - thank you so much for making reading so much fun. Every time. Always. I don't know who I would be without Feyre, Ness, and Bryce. I don't want to know because I love who I am with all of their journeys pushing me forward.This book in particular feels like a big hug. Is it just like every SJM book that takes us on a wild journey of emotion? Yes. But it also feels just a bit different to me. It feels like I'm walking next to Bryce the entire time, hanging out with her and her friends. It feels like I'm at Ruhn's house, like I'm playing video games with Baxian and Hunt. Or watching Sunball with Ithan and Tharion. It feels like I'm laughing as Ithan falls through the coffee table and talking to Bryce and Juniper about dance classes.I've loved books for a long time, but I don't think I've ever felt so a part of something before.House of Sky and Breath is all about the chaos that comes from a battle won, wondering when the next thing is going to fall on your shoulders. It's about choosing to stand up for those who can't stand up for themselves, even when you finally have the life you've always wanted. It's dreaming for a future while wondering if there is one out there for you at all.It's loving your friends. Remembering to live no matter what is happening around you. Choosing who you want to be and not accepting the life that was chosen for you. Bryce constantly shows us what it means to truly carve your own way in the world, and I will never stop looking up to her. Wanting to be just like her.The quote I pointed out, doesn't it just come to embody this series as a whole? We don't know how much time we have with the people we love, so why not make the most of every single moment we do have?And the plot reflects that entirely.I will never get tired of reading House of Earth and Blood because I have never read something that more perfectly reflects my own experience with grief and heartache. This book? I'll always feel like I found a group of people who will always make me feel included and a part of something. One thing that fiction will always have over reality is that it can make time stop. We only get what an author chooses to share with us, and no more. A plot will never change, and the people will always be who they were at the last word on a page. It's one of the most comforting feelings in the world that no matter what happens, characters will always be who they were the first time we read them.They change, the adapt, they live, they die... but they never leave you. People drift. It's human nature to move on, change and grow. But our favorite characters are always right there on a bad day. A good one. A weird one. A sad one.I will walk every world with Bryce, and I'll do so for the rest of my life.I can't wait for book three.- Paige