2.5 StarsI absolutely loved, loved, loved the first book. Which is why Murder of Crows disappointed me so much more than it should have. There are two main aspects that in my opinion 'ruined' the story: Meg's character and the plot. If you will, let me tell you what I thought. If you loved this book, like all my friends did, then just ignore what I have to say. (:I actually don't have a lot of expectations about a sequel. The only thing I really ask for is good character development; this, however, I feel is vital. I allow a book series, its characters and plots a lot of flaws in the beginning of the story. The protagonist(s), e.g. our hero or heroine, can be cruel, or naïve, or weak, or spoiled, or broken, or have almost any other character trait that normally shines a negative light on him or her. Why? Because flaws make fictional characters real. Because I want to see the characters grow into something else. Because I want their story to be given weight and meaning. Sadly, the only character development to speak of in this book surrounds the supporting characters.Meg is probably the character that is most subjectable to change and development.When we met her, she was this broken thing of a being, that - understandably - had trouble handling the simplest tasks of daily life. Because of the cruel actions she had to endure in all her life, she was as helpless and naïve a girl as you can come by. And because of what she is, a blood prophet, she was seen as one the purest creatures that exist. Despite Meg being the main character of this series, could she never be seen as a heroine, as someone that impacts the direction of a story through her own will, as someone that leaves their mark on the world. She was the personification of a Mary Sue character. Which is why, I really needed Meg to grow beyond her limitations. I wanted her to battle her past demons, to fight to live without having to bleed, to grow a consciousness of the world around her, to form opinions by herself, to learn to not be dependent, to not want to please everyone, to just say fuck you world because she can. To become someone I want to follow on her journey. None of that happened. Meg remains the same girl we met in book one. Not only is she helpless and doesn't do anything about it, but also does everyone still fall over themselves to serve and protect her. This worked for me in Written in Red, because I could understand and imagine how hard this new life must be for her. I could reason for why she managed to enchant the terra indigene. However, this merely annoyed and frustrated me in Murder of Crows.What makes matters even worse is that she is beyond passive in this book. I loved to read about the daily routines in book one, because it was just as new for the readers as it was for Meg. But now, that merely is boring to read about. Furthermore, I must wonder whether this actually matches Meg's character. Yes, she was helpless and naive, but she also survived and escaped her cruel upbringing. Does this not mean she has fight in her? Does this not mean she wants to discover what the world holds for her? Does this not mean she wants to be the only one making the choices over her life? I wonder how the author can reason keeping her character within the boundaries of the courtyard, from keeping her from participating in the world?! The plot of Murder of Crows surrounds the whole slowly escalating conflict between the terra indigene and homo sapiens. The whole concept simplifies to two sides of a unopened war. The humans blame the Others for suppressing them, which leads to individual aggressive actions against the latter, and the Others blame the humans for not upholding their bargain, and destroy whole civilizations to counter. While I at first liked the premise of this, and getting to know more about the world building, it soon became clear that what Ms. Bishop had in mind just doesn't work as she intends it to. Good and evil are often merely two sides of a coin. A take of perspective. A learned, conditioned opinion. Can the humans fault the Others for treating them as they treat their livestock? Can the Others fault their intelligent meat for acting after their instincts; to break the chains of suppression and fight for the chance to live?Pretty fast it becomes very clear what opinion the author tries to enforce upon the reader, which isn't only too black-and-white to be true but also seems extremely short sighted. The Others are betrayed as honorable creatures; sure, they see humans as walking, talking meat, but apparently the terra indigene let the humans live their lives as long as they impose no threat. But once you take a closer look at the world, once you start evaluating everyone's actions, you will actually see, that this isn't quite true. In our world, on Earth, we have learned through wars and civilization that suppression, slavery and physical punishments achieve a lot, but don't lead to obedience and submission. At least not on the long run. The Others either don't know this - despite them considering themselves as the superior species - or don't care about it. They act by punishing all human kind for the bad actions of a few. At the same time, humans acting good - like our lovely inspector Monty! - are merely rewarded by the Others promising to withhold further slaughter for a short time. I am not trying to defend the horrible actions some of these humans take, but every action has a reaction. And this whole scenario is nothing but a huge vicious circle. There is no right or wrong, no good or evil. There are merely sides. The Others. And the humans. Personally, I think Ms. Bishop is heading into a dangerous direction with the whole conflict. For several reasons I feel she should have just stuck with what we knew about the world, and left this impending war untouched. For one, if she wants to resolve the situation - for the good of one or both species, this takes a lot of time and effort. This can't just be resolved on-the-fly in one or two books. This takes some real commitment.Furthermore the whole terra indigene vs humans left Meg completely unfazed. Apparently. Not once did she have an opinion about terra indigene slaughtering whole cities. Hey, I am again not saying the Others aren't in their 'right' but I am saying that as a human you must have some kind of feelings about this. Again, circling back to Meg's passiveness. Unreal. There is a lot left to say, but quite frankly, this book disappointed me so much, that I had to force myself to finish it - and even then it took days. So a few more things in short.Pros:- Monty. Loved him. He's the only one that feels real. - Simon had his moments. Made me giggle a few times, and his inner dialog made me nod along. However, I feel like he's becoming too human. I preferred him in book 1. Cons: - Sam is nonexistent. Why?- I miss hearing more from Tessa. - The romance doesn't interest me so much anymore. I felt addicted to it in book one, but I lost that feeling in this book. - Most terra indigene that we got to know in book one seem to be very different characters. Why are they all going soft all of a sudden? Also, whenever Meg's name is mentioned, everyone falls over their own feet to rush to her. Annoying; don't they have any lives themselves? - Nothing actually happens. Sure, there's a plot, and we read from the 'bad guys''s POV, but there's no real curve to the story. No climax. No OMGWTFJUSTHAPPENED moments. Nothing that will emotionally touch you. I will be continuing to read this series, but it no longer has me waiting excitedly for the day the next book is released. To all of you who have yet to read this book/series, I hope you fare better with it than I did. (:-----------------------------------------------------Pre-read updates: -----------------------------------------------------EDIT3:AND SO IT BEGINS.-----------------------------------------------------EDIT2:OMG! Am I hallucinating???!!!It freaking has a cover! #fangirldance IT HAS A COVER GUYS! And an awesome one at that. It fits so incredibly well to book one :o Well chosen Mrs. Bishop. Now, where are we on that earlier release......? Say - tomorrow? ;)-----------------------------------------------------EDIT:It's one of those days, you know? One of those days where I'm looking for my next reading candy but nothing seems to be good enough. EXCEPT, ofc, a freaking book that hasn't been released yet. HELP! Can we have an excerpt or something. PLEASE! I'm starving here.-----------------------------------------------------I SO WANTNEEDCRAVE this book!NOW!Pretty please? The recreation of shifters, vampires, elementals, prophets - hell, supernatural beings in general was soooooo refreshing! I am addicted! Plus I cannot wait to see how Meg and Simon's story is going to continue! *girly scream*