Look forward, not back. Correct your course and go on. You can’t undo yesterday’s journey.Even though almost nothing happened plotwise, I love it. This book focused mainly on character development and world building. I really love the way things are progressing for the characters even though not all are positive, I love that the characters just refused to give up.You cannot simply discard parts of yourself because they are painful. Acknowledge them and go on.The writing is awesome, Robin Hobb's writing style is my favourite thing about her, it compels the reader and draws the reader in, its easy to get in the mind of the characters. Her world building is explicit, I love it.The friendship in this book is so realistic, I adore the loyalties and dedication of people to what they believe in, do not even get me started on the romance, that was awesome, I love that it didn't overwhelm the plot.Discover where you are now, and go on from there, making the best of things. Accept your life, and you might survive it. If you hold back from it, insisting this is not your life, not where you are meant to be, life will pass you by. You may not die from such foolishness, but you might as well be dead for all the good your life will do you or anyone else.There were some revelations in this book that really surprised me, the whole sea serpents POV now makes total sense. I can see how the third book will end. What I can't picture is how Jamilia, Bingtown and Chalceaden will resolve their conflict.This book started just where the first book ended, there was no time jump which I enjoyed immensely, I love all the characters in this book, except Kyle Haven which I loathe, I even like hateful, selfish people user Kennit, he's likeable even though he is evil. Wintrow is becoming a mature and realistic young man, the naive and optimistic monk is almost done, he us still a good person but life has changed him.‘Love isn’t just about feeling sure of the other person, knowing what he would give up for you. It’s knowing with certainty what you are willing to surrender for his sake. Make no mistake; each partner gives up something. Individual dreams are surrendered for a shared one. In some marriages, one partner gives up almost everything she once thought she wanted. But it’s not always the woman who does so. Such sacrifice is not shameful. It’s love.Althea is also growing up, she is still somewhat selfish but it isn't as bad as before, oh how I love Brashen, despite everything he's been through he is still so good.Malta is now a changed person, gone is the spoilt and selfish brat, life has changed her for the better, and I'm loving the new her. Rye is a Rain Wilder that I also like.‘Half the evil in this world occurs while decent people stand by and do nothing wrong. It’s not enough to refrain from evil, Trell. People have to attempt to do right, even if they believe they cannot succeed.’Ronica, Keffria and Selden and were also in this, they didn't make much contribution. Serillia is a new character that I don't know what to make of, for now.Paragon is now my favourite Liveship, Vivacia is getting on my nerves with her new attitude.The plot focuses on the Vestrits trying to get Vivacia back, Kennit trying to win Vivacia to his side and a few other things.