“DON'T THINK OF IT AS DYING," said Death. "JUST THINK OF IT AS LEAVING EARLY TO AVOID THE RUSH.” 
The Apocalypse is not off to a good start.Ten years ago, Crowley (a demon) brought the  infant Anti-Christ to a group of Satanic Nuns who swapped the Anti-Christ with a human child.  For ten years, Aziraphale (an Angel) and Crowley educate the child on the finer points of good and evil.  
“People couldn't become truly holy," he said, "unless they also had the opportunity to be definitively wicked."
Then, when the Anti-Christ was supposed to come into his full powers, Crowley and Aziraphale realize that they didn't have the right child.

SH*T

Furthermore, they simultaneously realize that they rather like Earth. If the holy war was allowed to finish, then everything would be destroyed and divvied up between the two realms - and that divide would be terrible. 
Hell may have all the best composers, but heaven has all the best choreographers.
 So, it's up to them to find the Anti-Christ and stop the apocalypse. They only have seven to days to do it. It's just going to be one of those weeks.This one was absolutely hilarious! There were so, so many fun quirks and tangents in this book. Seriously great satire throughout! All the little details just make it pop. Such as Crowley's plant-tending method: 
What he did was put the fear of God into them.More precisely, the fear of Crowley.In addition to which, every couple of months Crowley would pick out a plant that was growing too slowly, or succumbing to leaf-wilt or browning, or just didn't look quite as good as the others, and he would carry it around to all the other plants. "Say goodbye to your friend," he'd say to them. "He just couldn't cut it. . . "Then he would leave the flat with the offending plant, and return an hour or so later with a large, empty flower pot, which he would leave somewhere conspicuously around the flat.The plants were the most luxurious, verdant, and beautiful in London. Also the most terrified.
Definitely one of those off-the-wall fun reads. I really want to go through it a second time to see all the things I missed!The 2018 ABC Challenge - G Audiobook CommentsThis one was particularly well-read by Marvin Jarvis (love the last name!) The varied tone and inflection just made it come alive.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads