I am not here to write a book review. I have read this book too many times and I love the characters too much to give a level-headed assessment of the writing or the plot. I'm here to talk about what makes Keladry one of the greatest female protagonists in YA literature. I hope you enjoy my love letter to Keladry of Mindelan, Protector of the Small. Growing up, I remember tearing through Tamora Pierce's books. First the Alanna series, then the Trickster series, and finally the Protector of the Small series. (I never got to The Immortals). Keladry was always my favorite. Most of my friends preferred Alanna, and I could never articulate why I found Keladry more compelling. After all, Alanna is incredible, and The Song of the Lioness is more popular than The Protector of the Small. But there's something about Kel that struck me as different. Now, at age 26, having just re-read both series, I finally have the words to explain why Keladry is so special to me. Alanna is your prototypical hero. She is brave, fiery, and chosen. From the first page, she dares to do the impossible, heedless of the danger. She doesn't think things through; she jumps in with complete faith that she'll be able to figure it out. As just 10 years old, Alanna uses her Gift to save the Crown Prince, convincing the God of Death to let him go. That is just the beginning of her heroism. Despite having no training, Alanna's raw magical power is already greater than that of experienced mages, and she is watched over by the Gods. Alanna of Trebond is not bounded by ordinary rules or laws. Over and over again, Alanna does the impossible, blazing a legendary path through history as a lone warrior. She has a few close friends who recognize her brilliance, and who aid her as best they can. But ultimately, Alanna always faces down the big bad alone. Keladry is nothing like Alanna. I don't mean to say that one is better than the other. But Alanna's story has been told many times; it is the story of most badass female protagonists. Keladry's story, on the other hand, is one that I rarely encounter. Unlike Alanna, Keladry does not have magic. She is not fiery, she is not chosen, she does not do the impossible. Keladry is a deeply practical character, a stubborn girl who toils away to acquire skills that do not come naturally to her. She follows orders that she dislikes. She does not seek glory. She uses her wits to out-think opponents. She is a meticulous planner. Since nothing comes easy to Keladry, she learns how to harness the mundane powers of routine and habits to succeed. She wakes up every morning to do her glaive routine, she trains with weighted weapons, she runs up and down hills, and she fails a great deal. Throughout the series, we watch her overcome obstacles with steadfast determination and a grueling work ethic. Hers is not a story of raw talent or divine intervention; hers is a story of perseverance. Keladry doesn't just overcome obstacles. She takes each new obstacle and uses it to strengthen herself. When Wyldon, her training master, forces her to climb high trees as an attempt to scare her off, Keladry uses it as an opportunity to overcome her childhood fear. When Joren adds lead weights to her lance, Keladry decides to add weights to all of her weapons. When Merric lashes out at her for helping him, Keladry practices emotional intelligence and chooses to understand his frustration. Keladry does not have a big ego, which means when people doubt her, she doesn't respond with angry defiance. She does something far more difficult and productive: she calmly uses what they've thrown at her to become better. Alanna is the type to call out the injustice and publicly fight against it. And while we need those people, I cannot help but feel particularly impressed by Keladry's ability to take the constant discrimination transform it into something awe-inspiring. She doesn't just endure; she uses what's thrown at her to become stronger, more empathetic, and more human. However, Keladry's grit is not her most extraordinary quality. What truly sets her apart are her relationships. Alanna is a loner who chafes under the needs and expectations of others. Keladry, on the other hand, builds community wherever she goes. As a page, Keladry forms a strong group of friends who patrol the halls at night to prevent hazing. As a squire, Keladry slowly wins the respect and camaraderie of hundreds of veteran soldiers. As a knight, Keladry successfully trains and leads a camp of 500 plus refugees. She does this by being down to earth, by listening to people's troubles, and by truly caring. Throughout the series, we see her connect with people across borders and social hierarchies: nobles and commoners, soldiers and refugees, the young and the old. Even animals flock to her. Keladry has a rare skill: she knows how to navigate the complicated waters of human behavior and bring out the best in people.To put it in simple terms: Alanna is a Hero, whereas Keladry is a Commander. Lord Raoul summed it up perfectly in the third book of the series. He taught Keladry that there are four kinds of warriors: heroes, knights, soldiers, and commanders. "Heroes find dark places and fight in them alone...Commanders have an eye not just for what they do, but what those around them do. They know where someone will shine and where they will collapse." That knack for command is exceedingly rare. To be a good commander, you must first understand people, then gain their trust, you must be confident enough to lead, and later practice enough humility to learn from your mistakes. On top of all this, you must hold within your mind the strategic, tactical, and mathematical skills necessary to wage war. Keladry can do this and more. She can also stand up in front of a hundred hostile faces and crack a joke to put everybody at ease. She can break up a fight between two brawling men and shake sense into them. She can ignore the whispers of judgmental onlookers and focus on building connections, one person at a time. She can win the respect of those who hate her. She can look at an old problem and approach it in a new way. I could go on and on. Don't worry, I won't. So allow me instead to introduce the final nail in the coffin of Keladry's greatness.Keladry is real. I am impressed by Alanna, but I am inspired by Keladry. Just like the young girls who wanted to become knights after watching her joust, I am inspired by Keladry because she is flesh and blood. She reminds me of some of the incredible women I've met in my own life. My own mother possesses a similar kind of quiet strength. There is nothing mystical, magical, or transcendent about Keladry; anybody can be Keladry. And we need more people like Kel in our world. Her particular brand of strength and leadership brings people together and makes people better. It's easy to be the hero that everybody loves, but far harder to be the commander who must be many contradicting things at once. Keladry is a shining example of what it means to be a good friend, a strong leader, and a motherfucking badass. I hope that young girls everywhere continue to read this series. Keladry was and still is who I want to be when I grow up.