Well, that was outside my wheelhouse...So in my life outside of Goodreads, aside from the usual adulting that we grown-ups do, I run an actual Sci-Fi/Fantasy book club. Well, we started out as a book club, and then expanded to also watching movies, drinking wine, and generally hanging out and geeking out together about anything science fiction and fantasy related. Anyways, we tend to pick our books by popular vote, and Tamora Pierce was one of the authors whose name was being bandied around frequently. After several false starts, as well as being beaten out by other "new & exciting" authors, we finally voted on Wild Magic as our next club read. I add this preface to my review simply for the fact that, if it wasn't for the book club voting, I'd have no idea who Tamora Pierce is, and would certainly have never picked Wild Magic as something I would read. I went into this book blind, which was probably a good thing.Because, though it should surprise absolutely NOBODY who's read Tamora Pierce, I'm not exactly the target audience for this series of novels. Does that mean I didn't like the book? Not at all. I actually rather enjoyed it. But YA/Teen fantasy isn't something that I read a lot of, and while anyone can find something to like in this tale, it's definitely teenage girls who will certainly get the most traction from Tamora Pierce's works.Knowing all that, I will try to tailor my review accordingly. Because there are certainly some things I could nitpick about this book. The language is decidedly modern at times (for a fantasy tale), the descriptions are a little...simple, and everything wraps up a little too neatly. But, given her target audience, I see why it was written as it was. Also, I didn't like the fact that we get point of view changes in the same chapter, especially when it's a quick jump without any kind of marking or indicator. One paragraph we are with Daine, the next we are with Cloud (her pony), and then a few paragraphs later we are back with Daine again. It's not that you lose what's going on in the story, and maybe I've been reading too much modern fiction, but it comes across as inexperienced writing. I know books I read as a youth tended to skip POV's freely, and I never gave it much thought back then. But these days...it just doesn't work for me. Don't know why. Maybe it's that "get off my lawn" grumpiness as I get older. Who can say?But let it be said that, while I am pointing out those things, it's really not a criticism of Tamora Pierce's writing ability. She can definitely tell a tale, and is most assuredly a wordsmith. She knows exactly who is going to read her books, and writes to that level with astonishing ease. So I pointed out the negatives...but what of the positives?Well, there's plenty of positives here. Daine is a great POV character (which is good, since she's essentially the only one we get). She's young, but not stupid. Inexperienced, but not immature. She's determined, but not infallible. I think she's a great protagonist for young girls to look up to. She's kind and resourceful, but has her fair share of fears and doubts, which she works through over the course of the tale. She's also not a complainer or a quitter (she's definitely not a Skywalker...). She has good friends and helpful adult mentors who guide her and support her. It's actually a nice switch, since in the few YA/Teen books I've read, the adults tend to come across as inept or disengaged. The same can't be said here. From Onua, Numair, Alanna, Thayet, and all the rest, we get adults who engage with Daine in different, but positive, ways. Daine is the kind of character that I will want my daughter to read about, and emulate, when she is old enough to read these stories. In addition to all the human characters, we get a whole slew of animal characters to populate the tale with, which makes sense given the nature of Daine's magic. This is, I think, where the book really heavily gears towards the younger female readers. Since Daine can communicate with animals, we get quite a bit of insight into the minds of the creatures she engages with. Horses and birds, wolves and sea lions, bats and rabbits...the list goes on. The horses definitely have the largest animal role, with Cloud nearly becoming a full-fledged character on her own, but Tamora Pierce really seems to capture the ways in which these animals would "think" and behave across all the species that are in the book.The story moves a good pace, with a healthy mix of wonder and dread, monotony and discovery. Also, the storyline is rather unpredictable, which makes the tale more enjoyable. We know, in a roundabout sort of way, where Daine is heading, but the encounters she has, and the events that take place around here aren't really telegraphed, so when they happen it's a pleasant surprise. And most importantly, there are some great morals and lessons nestled within these pages. Kindness to animals, not judging by appearance, working hard and being responsible, honesty and courage. It's all here, told in ways that feel believable and true.Sadly, the "big bad" of the book is really only a faceless army that opposes the kingdom that Daine lives in, and they only show up near the very end. And while in an adult oriented book that would be a major ding, here it's just a slightly wasted opportunity. The real point of this book is to witness the growth of a young girl as she makes her way into the world, learns about her powers, and establishes relationships that will shape her future. The good vs. evil part feels kinda tacked on, not quite obligatory but close. The magic is, well, just that. Magical. There are some basic rules assigned to it, but all in all it's pretty nebulous. If you are looking for Sanderson levels of cause & effect and rules & limitations, you won't find it here. We find out that water amplifies Daine's magic, because...well...reasons. Oh, and she can pull magic to replenish herself from other creatures, even if they themselves are exhausted, because...well...why not? Sometimes it comes across as a little too deus-ex-machina. But magic is supposed to be magical, right? So honestly, I could live with it.I will admit that I struggled initially just getting invested in this one. We just get thrown in, and there's very little exposition or history to go on. Daine just shows up, has a small conversation, and then we're off to the races. It's very incidental storytelling, not delving too deep into any one person or event. We only learn information about characters if another character happens to talk about it. While true to life, it basically left the world feeling a little hollow. But once Daine started exploring her powers, and started interacting with various new creatures, the tale rolled right along and became quite fun. And, honestly, I have to wonder about the Kingdom of Tortall. Because literally every adult character in a position to influence Daine in any way comes across as super benevolent, hugely important, and 100% supportive of Daine and her strange magic. And while positivity is a good thing (see earlier in this review), it seemed a little far-fetched that EVERYBODY would support her instantly and without hesitation. Humans being what they are, there's got to be at least one douchebag that she'll come in contact with. I don't know that you can have a fantasy tale without a little douchebaggery afoot. So it felt a little...odd. Especially after having re-read Ender's Game recently.So yeah, that's my review. Will I read the rest of The Immortals series? No, I don't think so. Not because they aren't good stories or because they're not well written. They absolutely ARE both of those things. But honestly, it's just not MY kind of tale. That's not an indictment, just a fact. I will, however, have my daughter read these when she gets a little older. She loves animals, and would give anything to have a power like Daine's. And Daine would be a great role model for her to read about. Tamora Pierce will be right up her alley. But for me...time to find a more adult tale to cleanse my palate. Something with swearin', murderin', boozin', and/or sexin'. Huzzah!