March 2023: I still bemoan what this series could have been. February 2016: Two stars, but that's not to say I didn't read this in one sitting, because I did. (Then again, it's not very long.) In order of least to most frustrating:1. The note that "Like her predator friends, Daine ate meat" is pretty interesting. Definitely important to note and also - slightly weird? The later distinction that she can't eat anything she shifts to is even more important, because it tries to resolve the inherent contradiction between seeing these animals as friends and, you know, eating them. But it's not introduced in this book.2. Pierce's writing is pretty clunky in places, and it's especially grating here: The K'mir stuck her finger into a pouch filled with a powder known as "eyebright."And: Supper - fish and a pot of spiced white cereal grains Onua called "rice" - There must be a less heavy-handed way of explaining concepts, especially with the rice.There's more clunky dialogue, too, like this exchange: "Great," Thom said. She has to go away again."Kally sighed. "It's like Mama in raiding season," she told him. "We're lucky to have mothers who fight. Our fathers must stay home and protect their people.""Da fights when they hit the village." Thom was a stickler for fact."Papa fights if he can." Roald tried to smile and failed.Poor things, Daine thought. They miss their folks, coming and going all the time.Really? Is that what this conversation is about? Because if it is, maybe the best way to express that isn't "We're lucky to have mothers who fight. Our fathers must stay home."I do like that Pierce acknowledges that heroism and responsibility take their toll on the people around these larger-than-life figures, particularly their kids. But there has to be a more nuanced way to phrase that.3. At this point in the Tortall series, I'm getting a bit tired of the stark morality. When Kitten's mother is burning all those Carthaki ships in the harbor, Numair says it's justice, because they brought her here. I mean, yes, I'm not denying that, nor that the Carthakis were doing their best to raze Pirate's Swoop to the ground. But there's something about that "And it's justice, my magelet" that rubs me the wrong way.4. Daine is thirteen, and Numair is twenty-eight. THIRTEEN. TWENTY-EIGHT. And Pierce is already hinting subtly that it's headed in that direction. Exhibit A: His voice was midrange for a man's, warm and a little hesitant - nice to listen to, Daine thought. She kept her eyes away from him as she wrestled with her leatherwork.A pair of large hands came into her field of vision to hold the strap while she set the final stitches. "Thanks," she whispered, blushing. No no no no no.5. My real problem with this book, though (the previous things aren't really problems, or not to the extent this one is; plus Daine and Numair don't actually become a thing until book four, and it's a little unfair of me to hold that against this book): I don't like Daine, who is essentially defined by her Wild magic. I don't like the idea of Wild magic at all. First of all, in a country teeming with people who have the Gift, Daine is really the only Wild mage? Really? And if Wild magic is so rare, why does everyone know what it is? Alanna - Jonathan - Thayet - Onua - not just Numair the scholar. So here you have a rare, more boring version of the Gift (sorry, but talking to animals will never be as interesting to me as healing or Roger's hypnotism or Onua's hiding them completely from sight or any of the more exciting forms the Gift takes; nor are Daine's conversations with animals as interesting as conversations with people, and it's deliberate, because the animals much more simplistic in tone), but somehow, everyone immediately sees how valuable Daine's magic is, and how much they need it, and all the ways in which they can use it...It makes the entire book take on a different light. I'm willing to believe Onua's nice to everyone, but everyone falling over themselves to offer Daine a home feels much more - rapacious. She's useful, and they know that. (In the case of Jonathan and Thayet, it's their job to know that.) Isn't it great that Daine's so lovable and lonely???And once I balance how unlikely everyone's overwhelmingly consistent niceness is against the value of Daine's magic, even Thayet and Jon's everyman approach - "Look how normal we are!" feels calculated. And all that is at odds with the new-shiny-naive veneer of the book. Ultimately, I think I like Pierce's books best when they focus on developing skill, on hard work. Here it's just power and more power, and an unacknowledged desire to tap into that, and Daine's so immediately special (as opposed to Alanna and Kel, who start off as cogs in a wheel) - I think it's just not my sort of story.