I think it’s hard for modern readers to imagine the cultural landscape back before fantasy became commonplace and widely accepted. Back when McCaffrey wrote this, before Star Wars, there was very little presence of fantasy in pop culture. Sure, there was plenty of good fantasy to read if you knew where to look, but for most of the general populace, awareness of fantasy was limited to The Lord of the Rings, which had been published twenty years earlier. So when McCaffrey published her Pern novels, they took the world by storm. Each book lived on the bestseller lists; every home had a copy; the Pern novels were used to launch the kind of marketing juggernaut that’s expected today but which was astonishing at the time. Everywhere I went, growing up, Pern and Lord of the Rings merchandise abounded. Calendars, atlases, video games, lunch boxes, T-shirts, posters, costumes, toys, stuffed animals: there seemed no amount of the stuff that could satisfy the public appetite for Pern materials. I have to admit, I was turned off and intimidated by all the hype, and so it was this long before I got around to reading them.I’m glad I did, at last. It is a good read, even if the break between the first and second books seems arbitrary. I’ve said many times in the past that the best way to appreciate books in a series is to space them out with plenty of time between one book/episode/installment/issue and the next. Reading series installments back-to-back can often lead to dissatisfaction with voice, style, and even thematic changes, as the author has changed in the time it took between writing different volumes. That said, it’s always interesting to read a book that begins immediately where the last book left off, without any break at all. I’m left wondering whether the books were actually written as a single volume that was then split into parts by the publisher, as with Hyperion and The Lord of the Rings. So it is here: Dragonsinger picks up the narrative of Dragonsong without any pause more than a paragraph break. I actually found this a bit refreshing, as it also means that the book makes no attempt to present “our story so far:” if you haven’t read Dragonsong before this, you’re out of luck. There are no explanations of setting, background, personality or appearance of characters from the first book, or anything else. I loved that.The break between novels does make some sense, if you can accept the premise that a break was needed at all. Our heroine, Menolly, was isolated and on her own in the first book. It was almost a Robinson Crusoe story of survival against the elements, ending with her joyous acceptance back into society. This book is about school, and as such it somewhat feels like a precursor to Harry Potter and all its imitators, if they were set in a music college in a medieval setting...essentially a school for bards. While there is no prophecy presaging Menolly’s arrival (hallelujah!), she is possessed of preternatural gifts: both an amazing musician and a tamer of fire lizards. But this is not a story about magic: it’s a story about Menolly coming to accept her gifts despite the intense prejudice and criticism she has experienced for those gifts up until this point. She is exceptionally talented as a musician, lyricist, and composer, but it takes quite some time for her to first recognize that these things are important and praiseworthy. That’s really what the story arc in the book is: it’s very internal, and not a lot happens externally in the book, which takes place over the course of one week (though I did cheer when Menolly hauled off and clocked the Lord Holder’s son after everyone was a jerk to her). She moves from self-doubt to self-confidence, makes some enemies and makes some friends. That’s about it, though there were some events (the dragonrider warping to another planet to try to destroy the source of the Thread! Good grief! What an idiot!) that I assume foreshadow future developments. It’ll seem sparse and the main character may even seem obtuse to fans of heroic fantasy (“Why doesn’t she get how great she is??”), but I enjoyed it.