I picked up this book, accidentally began to read it and then found myself utterly swept away by the story of Menolly and her early experiences in the harper hall of Pern. Much like the lyrics 'she' wrote in the book; Then my feet took off and my legs went, too,So my body was obliged to followAnd there I was immersed in the story, which I have read before of course, but not for a while. McCaffrey's Pern books are Iconic, I don't suppose a young reader today would find it easy to realise just HOW iconic they are. Before Pern and the dragonweirs, dragons were the bad guys, almost always. Until the notion of impressing a dragon and forming a lifelong bond with them was written in the Pern books, many of us had no idea that was a subconscious dream because we only knew dragons as wild ravening enemies (in literature of course, having never met a dragon in person that I know of).Another was she was iconic was in the way she wrote women, strong women protagonists, with interests beyond marrying the price and bearing his progeny. Women and girls whose history and vulnerabilities were part of them but did not solely define them, Menolly with her fair of nine singing fire lizards is just such a protagonist. She is gifted in music and in this early book she is still painfully uncertain of herself. The story of how she overcomes small adversities to find her place in the Harper Hall is a balm to anyone who has ever wanted to find the place and the people to whom they belong, but it is a charming story in it's own right as well.The descriptions of the hold and the daily routines, the festivals or 'gathers' as they are known and the minutiae that goes into constructing the story background is most excellent, delightful to anyone with an interest in medieval history. As it is set in the Harper Hold it is an early book in which we see McCaffrey starting to expand the world of Pern from the Dragons to all the other inhabitants, While I keep harping (ha ha, did you get the pun... well, I think I am funny at least...) on the place in literature that the author and Pern have, it is beyond doubt a delightful book in it's own right, Menolly finds her place, makes friends, and starts to realise her own talent and her abilities. Marvellous story.