“The gap of danger where the demon waits is still unknown to you. Seek it if you dare.”Written by an Unknown author, Beowulf is the most famous work of Old English literature - a mythical epic that influenced J.R.R. Tolkien and the whole fantasy genre. Beowulf is a heroic epic about a Germanic hero, a Christian vision of a pagan heroic life - in which epic hyperbole exaggerates stories of individuals and creates a cult of warrior heroism. In a lot of ways, Beowulf is an ultimate monomyth as the story evokes the primordial myth, the myth of the process of individual mental growth and the development of universal human consciousness. In the story the hero Beowulf is confronted with three archetypes in the process of individuation - Shadow, Anima and Self - in Grendel, Grendel's mother and dragon. Beowulf's confrontation with these three figures embodies the Jungian stages of life in the context of his special role within the community. So the myth can seen as the myth of male initiation and individuation.The poem is written in complex Old English with Anglo-Saxon accent alliterations, inversions and paraphrastic repetition. The composition is disordered in excessive repetition, slowness, interruption in the course of action. It consists of numerous episodes, inserted stories as the poet interrupts the unique course of action. That accentuates the notion that the passage of time is a mere human illusion as the past, present and future are inseparable parts - it is difficult to find a thread of wisdom in present without looking at the past and the future at the same time. Digressions should not be interpreted as vagueness but as variations of the basic theme - emphasizing the opposite in paraphrastic, comparative sentences, alluding to the fact that everything in nature, history, and human psyche comes in the pair of opposites.The epic is set in Scandinavia in the 6th century and the plot is a combination of fiction, myth and history of the age of patriarchal warrior aristocracies. Lévi-Strauss’s question —“Where does history end and where does mythology start?”—is worth posing for its bearing on the poem’s main plot, as we can see in the illustrated edition, a lot of archelogical findinds corresponded with poem's story.The atmosphere of the poem is dignified and gloomy, and without the sun and without the serenity the cold wind of the northern seas blows from the poet's verses, dark clouds and fogs. In that harsh climate live warlike tribes whose reality is harsh and bloody. Beowulf is a symbol, a hero that sublimates their moral values.Beowulf's name is formed from the combination of words; bees and wulf; it means the enemy of bees, which is a metaphorical name for a bear. Beowulf has animal strength, in the hands (bear paws) and body as the animal components of Beowulf allude to shamanic traits. Interestingly, the reader never finds out how does Beowulf or any of the monsters look like; instead there are detailed descriptions of armor, like a mask that secretly shows the essence. Beowulf and monsters are more determined by what they do than by their physicality as they are characters of embodied ideas.The myth is often considered a Christian allegory with pagan elements as it represents a fusion of Christianity and Germanic paganism as both elements are interwoven in the story. The Pagan Vikings saw themselves as prisoners of inevitable fate - there was no consolation that the afterlife would bring a reward to the righteous. The Pagan gods were themselves victims of the inevitable Destiny, so even man had no choice but to make peace with it. But the man did not reconcile with his transience, he sought to leave a trace among the living and therefore fought to gain the fame that will preserve his name from oblivion. This further strengthened heroism as a basic life principle. Individualism could hardly be expressed because the tribal spirit tended to conform everyone to the same ideal mold.Christianization of Scandinavians in the 9th century was difficult because it was hard to reconcile the ideals of tribal morality - aggression, cruelty, boastfulness - with the demands of Christianity - gentleness and modesty. The Biblical idea of the devil in the poem summarizes the creations of Pagan imagination, various evil beings, monsters and ghosts.The Christian symbolism is prominent in the poem. The story starts with the child who comes in the basket alluding to the Christian archetype of the child who saves, transforms and brings hope as, for instance, Jesus and Moses did. Also, the royal family tree is laid out as the Jesus family tree is described in the prologue of the Gospel of Matthew. The Danes royal family and blood ties are the cause of loyalty and fidelity - but the inheritance is as burdened as Jesus', as many of the family members are sinful murderers of their relatives. Later on, the monster Grendel is continuously described as Cain's descendant, jealous of people celebrating in the court regardless of sin, and he could attack them because they had the same inheritance.The Hall of Heorot is akin to Solomon's temple in maintaining the order of society and civilization against chaos- it represents the good values of the community - security, prosperity, togetherness, abundance, honor, hospitality, heritage, protection. The number 12 is constantly repeated throughout the poem and Beowulf comes in the company of 12 warriors mirroring the 12 apostles, which all fled when the hour of danger stroke and in Beowulf's (Jesus') death - only one disciple remained - Wiglaf (John).Hrothgar represents the archetype of the good King and Father who does not know about the Christian God, who is not capable of protecting his kingdom from the evil lurking in the kingdom - he needs the archetype of hero and warrior, as his ego is facing usurpation of the shadow by the monster Grendel.Grendel can be seen as Shadow on a personal (Beowulf’s and Hrothgar’s) and collective level (of community, Heorot halls). He is also a negative Animus, destructive aspect of Father and King, a kind of Oedipal Monster, the Negative, Tyrannical Aspect of a Father Eating His Children - the opposite, mirror image of Hrothgar. Grendel is portrayed as a hellish, cursed creature - a "monster man" and an "anti-hero", a descendant of Cain, the primordial murderer of the genus, cursed and excluded from human society. He is a symbol of evil and jealousy, blood revenge, a mockery of humanity, a tormented by the sound of joy rising from Hrothgar's hall. He lives in a swamp, a traditional final resting place for those who "pervert their person". Grendel is the shadow of a warrior society, a wild, bloodthirsty “creature” that kills people in the dark. He is the antithesis of a warrior who guards the heritage of culture against the destruction of nature and the destructive attacks of neighboring tribes. Grendel secretly destroys the fabric of society, seemingly from the outside, but in fact from within, from the seed of bloodthirst and death wish lingering in every man.Beowulf much like missionary Paul comes from the sea and brings peace and salvation to a society burdened with evil within and without, the evil of death revenge, murders of relatives, and monsters. He is a missionary, a both Hero and Saviour figure, who brings faith in the true God and peace, and he also comes to destroy, expel evil. He saves pagan Danes by his strength that is more than the ability to defeat monsters - he has the ability to control his instincts and urges and not do morally wrong actions. Unlike impotent hero Unfarth, he's not a killer of his own kin.Beowulf performs the act of symbolical castration on Grendel in tearing his arm and later severing his head. Grendel's death shares a lot with the great myths of beheading and dismemberment in mythology that are in resonance with the creation of the world and the establishment of culture.After Grendel, Beowulf is confronted with Grendel’s Mother as he has to be confronted with the feminine shadow aspect in the Devouring Mother, the opposite of the good queen. Grendel’s mother is a hideous man-eating female dwelling outside the pale of civilization and thus corresponds closely to the fairy-tale image of the witch. In Jungian terms, the symbolic figure of the witch is a negative manifestation of the projection generating archetype known as the anima. The anima represents the contra-sexual nature of a man, and by analogy, the feminine ideal of a male-dominated society. Grendel’s mother is fueled by vengeance in irrational emotionalism and sentimentality and she works out of the sadness of losing Grendel. Irrational emotionalism and sentimentality are the chief “bad attributes” of the feminine archetype in modern western culture and were likely to have been the same 1500 years ago.In his quests Beowulf cannot use earthly methods, his famous swords fail him every time, he can on rely on what he was born with, his strength of a body, soul and spirit. Beowulf wins because he is anointed by God, mirroring Biblical stories, the evil must be defeated on a spiritual level, by faith in God, and the victory comes because God willed so.Dragon is the ultimate and final monster Beowulf is confronted with. Unlike Grendel and his mother, the dragon's origin does not lead to Cain - he is not a mockery of humanity, it is something outside the human realm, a primordial being. Trans-personal in nature, the dragon is not merely a projection of psychic content, but power in itself, far beyond the limited sphere of Beowulf's ego, which lies beyond the relatively shallow depths of mind and nature he has mastered. He symbolizes the Uroboros - completeness of the psyche and the development of the hero that ends in death, the integrity of life and death itself - the place of transformation and enlightenment, finality. The hero is an archetype that must die and the dragon is the evil that will kill him, as history repeats the previously announced Sigemund's story.In constant premonitions of Beowulf's death and demise, there is both Pagan determinism and Christian acknowledgment of death. Unlike the Antic heroes who strived and received immortality with their deeds, Beowulf is a Pagan and Christian hero, that, like Jesus, has to end his heroic life in death - the hero is the one who repeats the work of Christ. The Pagan fatality and tragedy are prominent as Beowulf in the end did all in vain, he did not succeed in saving the Geates, as the other nations that will destroy Geate after his death. Neither Pagan religion nor Christianity saved the Geates - the dragon's treasure that Beowulf winned by his death will not save a nation and is actually useless.In a lot of ways, Beowulf’s death signals the end of a Heroic Age. The dragon is transpersonal nature, the evil that overwhelms even the hero, a fate that no man can escape - the diminishment of all his good deeds, the triumph of destruction.”For every one of us, living in this world means waiting for our end. Let whoever can win glory before death. When a warrior is gone, that will be his best and only bulwark.”As a myth of initiation, Beowulf has a spiritual value that transcends the needs and imagery of any given historical epoch. Beowulf is a man that mastered “five Giants,” the senses, and then the “sea serpents:” his emotional and sexual nature. Beowulf is also a symbol of a hero that undergoes his psychological transformation and therefore can bring peace to society and culture, and restore order. In times of crises, wars, and monsters, stories like Beowulf’s are needed as they set us to our own quest of finding the psychic wholeness and balance - the act of rebellion against the eternal chaos of the world.“So every man should act, be at hand when needed; but now, for the king, this would be the last of his many labours and triumphs in the world.“