I made it about 175 pages in and then I just.... I can't. I tried very hard, but to be quite honest, after about 30 pages, I was hate-reading out of spite, and I have better ways to spend my time. Here's my main two problems with it: 1. Even if your frame device--a letter about how the whole book is an "account" being sent to some kind of king/magistrate/judge (I admit, I can't remember)--says something along the lines of: "I know you probably know a lot of this lore, but I left it in the account because I decided to err on the side of ignorance," ...that's not an excuse for infodumping. If you can't creatively incorporate your exposition into the narrative, I...can't wade through it all. 2. There's two narrators--that's fine, two is a bearable number of PoVs--but they sound. Exactly. The. Same. Except one is in first person and one is in third. They have the same tones, the same resonances, the same character voices. And when one is an arrogant demoness and one is the boy she's bullying into telling the story, there's...not really an excuse for the tonal and vocal similarities. No, not even saying, "she's a mimic and tends to take on the mannerisms and character of people she's in close proximity to." That's... You can't have two characters who are so different sound exactly the same. Those seem like really petty reasons on their own, but combined with the unnecessarily graphic violence, the slow-as-molasses pacing, the really questionable bits of worldbuilding (still not over the extinct race of angelic beings who are born boys and turn into women when they hit puberty, because THAT'S UNCOMFORTABLE FOR SO MANY REASONS, or the race of women who were literally created to be slaves to the centaurs??), and the rather bleak outlook on a fantasy world (I'm not opposed to grimdark, but I'm...incredibly over brothels, rape, and slavery, ESPECIALLY when written by a woman who should be able to imagine a better world than the one we're in now), it just sort of washes out into something that GRRM could have written. But without the semi-decent prose. Also, any fantasy book that's got a setting full of brothels, rape, and slavery that has a man say, with all seriousness, "You can't know what I've been though," to a woman of that world, I automatically gag. I just can't.