This was the first book I read for Spooktober, and I gotta say, I was disappointed. Everything pointed to me liking the premise of this book. Period, yes. Strong female leads, interested! References to a plethora of gothic monsters? HELL YEAH. So what the hell happened?I honestly feel as though Goss bit off more than she could chew. First things first, the characters. They are all hollow. Every. Single. One. I felt no connection between any of the female leads and myself as a reader.They each felt like a stereotype that needed to be added in a sort of checklist. The intelligent lady, the mouthy brat, the foreign beauty, the gentle soul, the wildcat, the motherly governess, and the innocent maid. I literally hated Diana. What did the story gain from having Diana in it, outside of an obnoxious token teenager?The plot. What plot? Nothing was resolved. Literally nothing. This felt like the first book in the Babysitter's Club, except longer and more boring. What does the Athena club do anyway outside of raising money to live off of? Don't say solve mysteries. THEY HAVE SOLVED NOTHING. Ahem...style. Okay, I get what Goss was trying to do. I did. It works best in television or movies. Having characters interrupt in a book DOES. NOT. WORK. I'll tell you why. It pulls you out of the narrative and adds nothing. All the interruptions didn't add a damn thing. No insight. Just opinions on things that don't matter. Case in point every time Diana interrupts with "I don't sound like that." And the tangents? UGH! But wait, it gets worse. The characters tell you what happen in the story BEFORE it happens. "Like remember that one part where I got shot and nearly died, etc." And Then we find out 50 pages later what happened. WTF. You made me feel NO concern or caring! Also, what I hated, HATED, HATED! Making references to mysteries that we know jack about. It's comparable to Scooby-Doo and the gang name dropping all the monsters they've faced. But you see, WE GOT TO SEE THAT HAPPEN. NO ONE TOLD US IN THE MIDDLE OF THE EPISODE/MOVIE. I'm not done yet. The constant reference to the fact they're monsters. I got it the first time. The fact that they're monsters is so repeatedly drilled into my skull that every time it's brought up in the character interruptions, I couldn't help but groan. If you look at my reading notes, you can see that I counted each occurrence that I caught up until half-way through the book, where I just stopped caring to count. I caught it seven times in 200 pages.In conclusion, this was an okay book, but an incredibly mediocre attempt to start a new series. And like one of those other reviewers who said it: One star is for the pretty cover. This book was truly a monstrosity. *mic drop*