I haven’t read something like this fantastic novel which is equally entertaining, smart, funny and also sad, heartfelt, emotional, intense at the same time. It’s uplifting but it is also heart wrenching. Your emotions are everywhere. You smile and cry at the same time.  There are too many sensitive issues blended harmoniously at this novel. Transphobia, deep parental issues, deportation, grief are the main ones were discussed and approached from the POV of LatinX community.  Yadriel is our brilliant MC who just wants to approval of his family to accept his gender. For proving his point he attends to secret brujo ceremony. He summons a ghost and the ritual works perfectly! Nope, not exactly: because the ghost they summoned is Julian Diaz, school’s resident boy has no intention to accept the death before tying his loose ends and dealing with his own unfinished businesses.  Yadriel plans to find his missing cousin and a few runaway boys from LatinX community. To accomplish this mission he truly needs help of Julian and his cousin Maritza. So they team up together to solve each other’s problems but as you may see Yadriel finds himself fall for Julian. ( that’s the heart wrenching but also sweetest part of the story) There are so many things about this story. But Iwant to start with my favorite character: Julian was so adorable, vivid, full of energy! Once upon a time he was the member of the gang! When you read the dysfunctional family relationships and traumatic experiences of abandoned kids, dysfunctional foster care system, you may understand why those kids want to be a part of gang : they only need to be a part of something and people who they can trust.  I also enjoy to follow Yadriel’s journey: his self exploration about finding his own powers, strengths and capabilities. He finally finds who he is and his main purpose which also help the people around him understand his choices and give him the approval he needs. ( especially his father’s understanding and approval are the highlights of the story) Overall: this is a Mystical, enjoyable, emotional journey I wish it never ends. But it ended eventually with great conclusion. So I’m giving my blazing, shiny five stars and looking forward to read the new works of the author!