oh boy unpopular opinion time :///content/trigger warnings; transphobia, deadnaming, misgendering, gender dysphoria, death of a loved one, grief/loss, blood, murder, discussions of violence, mention of deportation, mention of xenophobia, mention of gun violence, mention of disownment, homelessness, mention of child abandonment, mention of police discrimination, mentions of smoking and alcohol consumption, violence, knife violence, dead bodies, injuries, hospital, sexism, non-binary erasure,rep; yadriel (mc) is cuban-mexican-american, gay, and trans. julian (li) is colombian-american, gay, and has adhd. maritza (sc) is puerto rican-mexican-american. rocky (sc) is gay. flaca (sc) is transgender. all latinx cast.this was one of my most anticipated books and i really thought i was going to love it. but i'm super bummed that i just don't like it. at all.but first. the things i like.— julian diaz. what a legend. he is by far my favorite thing about this book. i would take a whole book about him in a heartbeat.— the rep. i've seen so many glowing ownvoices reviews and i'm so happy for the people who feel seen and understood and loved by this book and i'm happy it's doing so well.— i love that maritza is vegan and rejects being a bruja because the tradition is to use animal blood and is supported by those around her for doing so. so often you see people act like just because something is a tradition in a culture that everyone has to just be okay with it, so it's just nice to someone within the culture not partaking in an aspect they don't agree with while still being involved and respectful. and when she does do magic and says "and i did it without animal blood, bitch"?? iconic.now, the big things i don't like.— one of my big dislikes is yadriel. it seems like i can't win with main characters, because i usually find myself adoring love interests or side characters and either hating or being neutral on the main character. but in this case, i cannot stand yadriel. he's self involved, judgmental, and just an asshole. yadriel goes on and on about how julian is a dick, when for a guy in his situation, he is a fucking angel to yadriel.when yadriel accidentally summons julian, he has absolutely no concern for julian. he doesn't want to be bothered with the consequences of his own actions, so he tells julian he's going to send him to the afterlife or whatever, and when julian doesn't want to go, yadriel tries to do it without his consent.julian mentions the terms non-binary, genderqueer, and intersex and yadriel has the nerve to be surprised julian even knows those words, and what makes it even more "dude what the fuck" is the fact that yadriel literally thinks he's the first trans brujx ever. it's played off like "i thought i was alone this whole time" but no, yadriel literally argues with julian and says it multiple times. anyone else would've just been like "what no fucking way that's incredible".then there's the part where yadriel is resentful of maritza for rejecting being a bruja because she's accepted, whereas he would love to be accepted but isn't. and like....his circumstances have literally nothing to do with her circumstances. i hate the whole "i would love to have what you have and you have the nerve to be dissatisfied with it?" shit. mind your own and let people be.yadriel has the tendency to play devil's advocate. when maritza is talking to julian about how she chooses to not do magic because it requires animal blood and she's vegan, yadriel feels the need to point out that it's locally sourced, as if one) she doesn't already know that and two) if it makes a difference. like, let her have her beliefs without trying to convince her or others that she's lowkey just being dramatic. then when julian is talking about his friends sleeping on the street and not having (good) homes to go to, he says one of them is in a group home, and yadriel chimes in to say "not all foster homes are bad" to which julian corrects his ignorance about foster and group homes not being the same thing. and aside from that, what the fuck does ~not all matter when clearly if julian's friend would rather be on the street it clearly means their home is not ~one of the good ones. every single time julian was talking about his or his friends' home and family, yadriel felt the need to talk down to them about how they didn't actually have it that bad.— the other big thing is one i didn't really even process fully while reading, it took reading other reviews for it to sink in. this book is wildly sexist. brujos get badass blades, can summon spirits, and can send them off to the afterlife. brujas, on the other hand, get necklaces and are healers. brujos are the leaders and make all the decisions and do all the heavy lifting. brujas, on the other hand, are told to stay home and cook. when yadriel's cousin dies, all the brujos go searching for him, while the brujas stay behind at home. the men are literally treated as gods, and the women are treated like lesser humans. and what's even more fucked up is that yadriel is only bothered by these roles when he's told to stay home with the women. obviously, he has a right to be upset with being treated as a woman, because shit's transphobic. but the women shouldn't be treated the way they are, either. it's like, "i shouldn't sit and twiddle my thumbs with the women while the men get shit done, because i'm not a woman" rather than "the women shouldn't be forced to stay home, either", ya know? to that i say, fuck your patriarchy.now the other things i don't like.— people aren't being dramatic when they say this book has no plot. literally nothing happens until the very end. it takes place over like a few day, less than a week. and it's all just the characters doing and accomplishing literally nothing. the only reason the book is as long as it is is because of the many page long infodumps, expositions, and descriptions, as well as the multiple times things are repeated.— and it sucks because all those pages could've gone to developing the characters (not just the main character and love interest, but pretty much every side character deserved to actually be fleshed out) and romance, as the characters have one characteristic and the romance is rushed (which technically would've been the case regardless because the book take places over like four? five? days), or you know, the fucking plot, because it's very easy to forget that they're basically trying to solve a murder.— it's very binary. everything is men and women. and the only time non-binary people are acknowledged is solely to make a point. they literally are used as a talking point once, along with intersex and genderqueer people, and that's it. sexuality is the same, too; gay or straight. i just expect so much more from queer books, because at this point there's no excuse.— i hate that yadriel equates telling julian's friends that he's dead to outing him. i need people, especially queer people, to stop comparing sharing people's secrets to outing them and/or telling someone something big to coming out. they are fundamentally not the same thing and never will be. stop.— i knew transphobia was gonna be a thing because of the synopsis, but it was still a lot. at least in the beginning. and i really don't like how it feels like yadriel's dad only accepted him as a boy because the magic accept him as a boy. he was transphobic as hell, and then suddenly changed his tune the minute he found out yadriel was able to do "boy magic". and the entire time yadriel was pulling that "but he's my dad" shit that i personally just hate reading. queerphobic family members are not entitled to forgiveness or the benefit of the doubt or endless time to ~come around simply because they're family.— yadriel's dad's "big gut" is mentioned more than once and it just feels unnecessary. if you aren't constantly mentioning the weight of thin characters, why do it with fat characters?— i mention before that there have been glowing ownvoices reviews, but i've seen multiple reviews that mention how mishandled the aztec, mayan, and incan cultures are. it's important to pay attention not only to those who loved the rep in a book, but also those who were offended or disappointed.all in all. just another hyped queer book that didn't do it for me.