Aiden Thomas' Cemetery Boys is a magical, emotional story about finding the courage to show everyone—including yourself—who you really are, with some terrifically creative fantasy thrown in.First, let me say that I cannot believe I’ve read 300(!) books so far this year. I will read a few more (I’m one of those who reads up until the very end of the year) but this is the most I’ve ever read—and I don’t expect to ever read this amount again! (COVID has really messed with my sleep patterns.)Now back to the book review...Yadriel’s family has a hard enough time accepting that he’s trans, and they definitely won’t allow him to participate in the traditional ritual where he becomes a brujo. Determined to prove his worth, he performs the ritual himself, and then, with his best friend Maritza, he plans to find the ghost of his murdered cousin, Miguel, so he can set his soul free.One problem: he summons the wrong ghost. Instead he summons Julian, a troublemaker from his high school. Julian doesn’t know why or how he died, and wants to figure things out, not to mention ensure his friends are taken care of. He asks for Yadriel’s help. Yadriel reluctantly agrees, but things start to get more complicated when he realizes he has feelings for Julian, and doesn’t want to have to release his soul.Cemetery Boys was a beautifully told story, about the difficulties in getting your family to accept you and love you for who you are. It’s also a truly inventive fantasy, full of Latinx traditions, and the story is richly drawn and evocative.I can’t wait to see what Aiden Thomas does next. They are such a talented storyteller!Check out my list of the best books I read in 2019 at https://itseithersadnessoreuphoria.blogspot.com/2020/01/the-best-books-i-read-in-2019.html. Check out my list of the best books of the decade at https://itseithersadnessoreuphoria.blogspot.com/2020/01/my-favorite-books-of-decade.html.See all of my reviews at itseithersadnessoreuphoria.blogspot.com.Follow me on Instagram at  https://www.instagram.com/the.bookishworld.of.yrralh/.