Many thanks to Macmillan Audio for the free audio file in exchange for an honest review"Don't mourn me.If you cry for me, I grieve your pain.Instead, if you sing to me, I'll always live and my spirit will never die."I probably wouldn't have picked this up if my friend Miranda hadn't recommended it to me but I am very glad she did. It was spooky, funny, and so, so adorable. It also had a pretty hefty plot twist in the end.So, what's this book about?When his traditional Latinx family has problems accepting his gender, Yadriel becomes determined to prove himself a real brujo. With the help of his cousin and best friend Maritza, he performs the ritual himself, and then sets out to find the ghost of his murdered cousin and set it free.However, the ghost he summons is actually Julian Diaz, the school’s resident bad boy, and Julian is not about to go quietly into death. He’s determined to find out what happened and tie up some loose ends before he leaves. Left with no choice, Yadriel agrees to help Julian, so that they can both get what they want. But the longer Yadriel spends with Julian, the less he wants to let him leave.I absolutely loved the Latinx culture. I've said it in multiple reviews but in case you haven't read and reread all 800+ of my reviews (how dare you), my dad is 100% latino making me 50% latino which I guess makes me biracial. ANYWAY, this isn't a discussion of my ancestry. My point is I love learning more about the Latinx culture (I admit I don't know as much as I wish I did) and also reliving the stuff I already know.Yadriel's family, in spite of some of them being unaccepting, were sweet. It reminded me of being surrounded by my Abuelos, Tios, Tias, and cousins and the sweet chaos the brought with them. I also loved the magic that was tied to the Latinx culture. It was fascinating and enjoyable to read and I really hope to see more of it in this author's upcoming books. I loved the characters too. Yadriel reminded me of myself (a little bit) and I loved his determination. Julian was so adorable. "It's a doggie dog world" will forever be one of the best, most adorable quotes I've ever had the pleasure of reading. I enjoyed the mystery that was woven into the story. I won't spoil but the plot twist in the end was so good and it totally surprised me. It was very Stalking Jack the Ripper-esque.Bottom Line:4 starsAge Rating - [ PG-13 ]Content Screening (Mild Spoilers)Positive Messages (3/5) - [Sacrifice, Selflessness, Perserverance]Violence (4/5) - [Gore, Body horror, Ghosts, Death, Blood, Stabbing, Shooting]Sex (1/5) - [Mild sexual themes, Kissing]Language (2/5) - [Sh*t, d*ck]Drinking/Drugs (3/5) - [Alcohol consumption, Medicinal drugs]Content and trigger warnings - Transphobia, Loss of a loved one, Violence, Gore, HorrorPublication Date: September 1st, 2020Publisher: Swoon Reads (an imprint of Macmillan Children's (an imprint of Macmillan))Genre: Fantasy/LGBT------------Hecka cute and a substantial plot twist at the end! review to come------------I'M SO EXCITEDDDDDDDDDDD| Goodreads | Blog | Pinterest | LinkedIn | YouTube | Instagram