If you had the power to end the world, would you do it? Looking around, seeing the structural injustice, the corrupted power, contentment of the few and misery of the millions, would you just decide to erase or would you devote your life and try to fix it? Is humanity worth saving or is it beyond redemption?As we conclude our journey through the Broken Earth, this is the main question N.K. Jemisin invites us to ponder over. Would you side with Essun, who warped and broken, reborn under different names but still with the same damaged legacy, stubbornly believes that the better world is possible? Or would you rather concur with her daughter, Nassun, that as a monster of a never-ending apocalypse, she has only one option. “Some worlds are built on a fault line of pain, held up by nightmares. Don’t lament when those worlds fall. Rage that they were built doomed in the first place.”“Burn for me, says Father Earth.”Essun is on the road with the survivors of Castrima comm and traverses the dying but still deadly, ashen landscape of Stillnes. After the destruction of geode, they need to reach Rennais in order to survive. The use of Obelisk Gate has taken its toll on her, but more importantly, if she truly wishes to save Nassun from the same fate she suffers, she needs to grapple with her Fulcrum-malformed sense of identity. Nassun leaves Found Moon behind, but as she embarks on the final journey, she also has to consider whether the sense of humanity is innate and hereditary like orogeny. Whether it can be cast away. Or cast in stone. This is the second question placed at the very fulcrum of Stone Sky - who is humanity? Who and on what grounds merit the ‘personhood’ categorisation. Is it the race? Skin colour? Or is it your genetic code that matters? When reading Stone Sky I kept thinking that we would have just aborted all the orogene babies (just like we are aborting babies with Down syndrome). Our grand civilisation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is very good at deciding who is and who isn’t worthy to be called and considered a human being. Also, excels in genocides without bodies (“But breathing doesn’t always mean living, and maybe… maybe genocide doesn’t always leave bodies.”). After all, people who live in the glass house shouldn’t throw stones. Even at the sky. “There’s nothing we did to provoke their fear, other than exist. There’s nothing we can do to earn their approval, except stop existing – so we can either die like they want, or laugh at their cowardice and go on with our lives.”One of the most poignant scenes is the conversation between Ykka, the leader of Castrima, and Essun and then later between Essun and her former fellow from Fulcrum, Maxixe. Ykka says: “Unbelievable. You think I'm pissed about the geode, don't you?” Ms Jemisin shows the two universes of perception, one geared towards survival, the other being an attempt to have life. Real life. As a prerogative of every human person (survival is for animals, isn't it?). "You didn't think about any of us while you were using those obelisks, did you? You thought about destroying your enemies. You thought about surviving - but you couldn't get beyond that.” And then Maxixe concludes: “We don’t have to be what they made us”, i.e. the monsters people imagined orogens to be.The Stone Sky can be read on many different levels: as a political manifesto, as a philosophical treaty, as a sociological study or on a psychological level as a mother-daughter story. It is also one of the greatest tales in modern fantasy/sci-fi told with an awe-inspiring boldness, it takes the genre to another level and redefines it. It spans thousands of years, encompasses different cultures, races, civilisations, and forms of existence. It is deep but it is also immediate, it is universal but touches on the very particulars of every soul. I am simply stoned by Jemisin’s talent to my very core.It is not the question whether you should read this series - it is rather the question of how soon you can do it. The answer is - the sooner, the better. I will need a couple of days to calm down. Or months. Or seasons.(might also try to eat some stones for breakfast)--My review of The Fifth SeasonMy review of The Obelisk Gate.