The Fifth Season: ★★★★The Obelisk Gate: ★★★★The Stone Sky: ★★★★ 1/24.5 starsStone Sky is a fitting closure for the Broken Earth trilogy and one of the most unique fantasies I have yet to read. N.K. Jemisin cemented herself as an auto-read author for me because of her wild imagination and compelling style. I honestly don’t know which book I prefer, it’s a tie between Stone Sky and the Fifth season. I’d give the trilogy a solid 4 stars. The three books feel more like one story rather than three especially since each continues from where the previous one ended.Jemisin proved herself to be a master at capturing human emotion (and confusing me but that’s for later). She creates multilayered human relationships and complex characters. The relationship between Essun and Nassun is rich and full of love yet Nassun is wary of her mother. The mother who was supposed to love and protect her. She found that in someone else. And of course, little did she know that in her head, Nessun was doing it all for her. Plus, the world-building is like nothing I’ve read before, I really can’t ask for more than that. But honestly what and probably my favorite thing about this book is how it mirrors the problems we have in our world, only in a fantasy setting. The abuse of natural resources, how humans take and take and take from the earth while hurting the environment, and by now we all know where that’s leading us. The racism the orogenes suffer from, the names they’re called, just for being different. They look the same as anyone. Feel the same things. Only because they’re different in one way, people cast them out. Although they would’ve died without them. Isn’t this just another face of genocide? Not only towards Nessun but also in the history of this world that was revealed in this installment and their people. It’s just horrifying… and not difficult to believe humans are capable of that.Sadly, I had a few minor issues with this book. I was BR with my friend and we both had similar opinions about it. First, the Hoa history perspective should’ve been introduced in the second book. I think introducing it earlier would’ve helped me connect with the characters we met in his chapters. His story is just as important and deserved more highlights. The very last thought was one of the most memorable scenes I’ve read. Loved it.My second issue and honestly one I’ve been encountering a lot with the books I’m reading is that I couldn’t live the story with our characters. I was reading about them but I wasn’t invested as emotionally as I would’ve liked reading this book. Well, not even the two previous ones either. It’s the only reason why I didn’t round up my rating to 5 stars instead of 2. I liked them. I liked reading about Nassun, Essun, Hoa, Alabaster, and everyone. Yet I didn’t feel like my heart will burst of love for those characters.And last but not least, Nessun acted like 12 years olds at least and never 8. Sure, she has gone through a lot more than kids her age but from the beginning, her age didn’t feel authentic. And the magic thing was introduced and I barely understood it.I think this trilogy is good for book clubs and BRs because there’s a lot to discuss and questions to ask (aka confusion). I was so confused most of the time and didn’t fully understand what they’re saying. I’m not familiar whatsoever with orogeny and its English vocab so that didn’t help either. Nonetheless, I enjoyed this book and reading about its characters. It’s definitely a trilogy I’ll be recommending in the future because the books are short for fantasy (kudos for writing quality fantasy books in less than 420 pages for each installment) and refreshing among similar world settings, with beautiful writing and likable characters.