I have made it through the Broken Earth trilogy. What a relief! For the past three months I was on the verge of DNFing the last book (because I simply couldn't bother with it anymore) but I am happy now that I stuck with it. The Stone Sky did a great job at tying the loose ends together and giving the series a well-rounded ending. A lot of things finally clicked into place and started to make sense for me in this last instalment. And whilst I am somewhat bitter that it took over two books to get to the good parts, I am relieved that we got good parts at all. I don't think it comes as a great surprise to anyone when I say that I am not a fan of the Broken Earth trilogy (and probably never will be, since I won't be rereading these books...), nonetheless, I think it is worth checking out since it explores important themes such as systematic oppression and decolonisation in a realistic way. As a woman of color, N.K. Jemisin has a lot to bring to the table of the genre of fantasy/sci-fi; a genre that is more often than not explored through a white and male lens. N.K. Jemisin's "Stillness" is a place constantly wracked by geological cataclysms. Every few hundred years an event is severe enough to touch off a global volcanic winter, referred to as a "Fifth Season". Orogenes have the ability to manipulate geological energies on a large scale, as well as magic on a smaller scale. They are a persecuted and feared minority, though it is largely due to their efforts humanity has survived the Seasons at all. The plight of the orogones in Jemisin's world can easily be applied to minority groups who suffer systematic oppression in our day and age (...and our past, as well), in particular the fate of African slaves who were shipped to the North American continent and the offspring they sired. It is not by chance that the slur "Rogga" (used to refer to orogenes in the Stillness) evokes the n-word of our day and age. Whilst I appreciate this trilogy for the heavy political and social commentary that is interwoven in it, I often had the feeling that Jemisin underestimated the intelligence of her readers. The analogies were always so on the nose and then still explained in full detail. It was all a little too bland and unoriginally put for me. I like social and political commentary that is subtle and makes me reflect on a problem of our day and age in a way that I have never done before. On that front, the Broken Earth trilogy didn't have much to offer. I can imagine that people who usually don't engage with the work of Black writers might find many new and highly engaging themes in Jemisin's work, I did not.As for the story itself, I have to admit that I was more confused than anything. I found it very hard to navigate through Jemisin's work. I could never picture any of the characters, places or happenings. And whilst Jemisin tried to explain the structure of her world (and the "magic" system), she failed in my opinion. At one point in The Stone Sky, she writes: "She can’t explain it. Lines of force, lines of sight, mathematical configurations; all of the knowledge that she needs is in her mind, but cannot be reproduced by her tongue." The frustration her characters feel at not understanding the magic at hand, was mirrored by me as a reader. And I bet that almost no one who has read the series could explain how orogeny works in full detail. Moreover, the narration in the series was totally not for me. Whilst I have explored many writers this year who excel at writing in second person (Gloria Naylor being one of them), Jemisin doesn't rank amongst them. I was happy to see that The Stone Sky featured three different storylines and only one of them was told in second person. Naturally, that was the one I loathed the most. Whenever one of Essun's chapters came around, I wanted to put the book aside. These chapters really sucked the joy out of the overall reading experience since they were tiresome to read. At the end of the first book the main narrator of the series is revealed and whilst his role and his intention for narrating this story is made somewhat plausible in the grand finale, I am still not really sold on the fact that his voice (and second person narration) was really needed for the series, let alone did it any good.In general, Jemisin's writing felt somewhat clunky to me. She often resorted to silly means such as USING ALL CAPS AND ITALICS and even went as far as to 
underline and use bold characters
 to add emphasis to her writing. Nope, that is 'telling' rather than 'showing' in its purest (and silliest) form. If the writing itself cannot make clear that something important or extraordinary is happening, boldface sure as hell won't convince 
MEEEEEEE!!!!!
 (Sorry for being so salty but the overuse of exclamation marks was another grievance I had with her writing!) Nonetheless, The Stone Sky definitely had its funny moments and two characters in particular made me grow fond of them over the course of the book. I was somewhat taken aback by the amount of cheesy and over-the-top moments in the last instalment, since the former two distinguished themselves by being overly realistic and frigid, but somehow these moments helped me to shape and categorise the characters more easily. I enjoyed how Jemisin explored the theme of motherhood (and fatherhood) in the series and to which lengths parents go to protect their children. Would I judge the overall series on enjoyment alone I would give it a 2 star rating, and couldn't recommend it with a clear conscience. For that it was way too clumsy and non-engaging. It's sad to say but I know for sure that I will forget most of it by the end of the year. The Stillness as a place and the characters it inhabits just aren't memorable at all. But taking the cultural significance of this series in mind, I can definitely bring myself to a solid 3 star rating. The series is definitely not flawless in its exploration of timely themes, nonetheless it is more than needed to establish POC as a given in sci-fi/dystopian/end-of-the-world settings, and Jemisin contributed to that in a bold way which I want to acknowledge and cherish.