1.	Malazan Book of the Fallen2.	Stormlight Archives 3.	Manifest Delusions4.	Long Price Quartet 5.	Broken Earth Needless to say cracking my top 5 series of all-time list every book in this series was a full five stars. The top two are set in stone but the next three are all pretty close and yet so distinctly different in concept. This story hit home for me on so many levels. First it’s an epic story transitioning over 40,000 years. The back story given to us in a trickle is brilliantly dispatched both in conceptual content and empathetic delivery. The cause and effect of humanities choices and their battle with the earth is so symbolic of some of today’s current issues. This book took on a lot of social issues. The stories of slavery both in the traditional sense and also to the capitalist ghosts in the machine as well were well delivered. Using the name Briar Patch and it’s connotations in conjunction with an almost Matrix like theme of sucking the life and magic out of people also resonated with me. The magic system was so unique and thought out but what really made it for me was you could feel the magic. That’s the difference between a fair to good story about magic and an epic one. What is the character feeling both physical and emotionally. NKJ puts you in the midst of that swirling silvery magic and you truly experience it. Simply brilliant. Last but not least what made this story epic for me and it’s the theme in all my top books/series the author had empathy bleeding out of the characters. You felt their pain. Experienced their grief. The sadness permeated from the pages. And yet you also experienced their hopes and dreams even when things were so dark they should be all but snuffed out. The climax of this book was cannot put it down, just have to get to the last page to see how this turns out reading. So many complicated story lines coming together. There were 4 big reveals during the books. Who were the different characters perspectives in relation to each other and the master narrator being the crux. All were brilliantly delivered. I figured them all out in advance but was still thrilled with how clever the breadcrumbs were leading to their discovery. This series blends GrimDark, Sci-fi and dystopian genres. If you’re a fan of any I would highly recommend it.