"I am forty thousand years old... Give or take a few millennia."

"Words are too much, too indelicate, for this conversation."
At long last, we are at the end of an extraordinary journey. Jemisin, yet again, has outdone her with The Stone Sky, bringing a spectacular ending to one of the best fantasy series of all time. And as usual, 'you realize belatedly,' what you don't know about Stillness is considerably more compared what you do know, even with two massive two books finished already. This was a mind blowing ending.
"It's dawn when you decide to change the world."
I started the last book only expecting action, assuming the author had covered pretty much everything about the backstory by now. But as it turns out, those seemingly irrelavent loopholes in the first two books still had some major roles to play here, right up to the very last chapter. Compared to first two books, the build up in suspense towards the end is even more pronounced, reaching the climax only during the last couple of chapters to deliver an impactful ending.
"The Earth forgets neither those who stabbed it in the back... nor those who put the knife in our hand."
At this point of the series, it comes rarely as a surprise how good Jemisin's writing, world building, and character development is. It felt like she had thought out the entire sequence of events from first book to last even before start writing the first book. The congruence, continuation and consistency between the three books couldn't've been as good otherwise. But who knows... May be Jemisin is that good!
"People believe what they wan to believe, not what is actually there to be seen and touched."
It was quite thrilling to reach the ending of this immersive series at last, but it's a little sad to see that this is really the end for all these amazing characters. I guess re-read of the trilogy will have to be the only consolation. Jemisin made my all-time-favorite author list with this single series, and while I'm tempted to do so, I'm now a little worried whether reading any of her other books might be disappointing compared to this. But hopefully that apprehension only applies to her past work, and looking forward to more great things from her down the line. I'll finish my review by saying, as of right now, Jemisin's The Broken Earth is the only other series to reach the place I hold for favorite fantasy series of all time, a place held only by Bardugo's SoC duology until now.
"In absence of all else, people run on hope."

"I think that if you love someone, you don't get to choose how they love you back."

"ALL THINGS CHANGE IN A SEASON."