(This review may contain minor spoilers)Disclaimer: I am not well equipped with the whole story of King Arthur (other than the general part of it), so take my review with grain and salts. 1) Plot:Undeniably, this book started slow but I like how the story builds up as it goes. The novel relies on flashbacks and let readers be familiar with Guinevere as a character more than it is by coming up with a compelling plot. Still and all, the relentless riddle will still make you intrigue to continue further (though you might find the constant repetitive monologue annoying). 2) World building:The Guinevere Deception is a magical and political story. The pragmatic sense of White's magic is one of my favourite features of the world she has created. Guinevere employs knots to perform spells, and another character uses stitching, but I believe the description of the magic system could have been explored more than it was. Not to say, there was little to capture the time and place's ambiance but I'm sure cutting some slack since this is merely the first book. 3) CharactersI may not be an expert with the legend but I do know that King Arthur is glory. However, the same could not be said for White's King Arthur. Aside from the fact that his character was unremarkable, I couldn’t see any renowned things about him. I know this is a reimagining of Guinevere's role in Camelot and I like that because King Arthur's story has always been patriarchal, but he's just barely noticeable. Popular opinion but I like Modred the best. I feel like his character is more engaging than Arthur in this book. I was anticipating his betrayal (tho I hope he wouldn’t since I liked him) but I did not see it coming sooner than I expected. When I knew this book is going to be a trilogy, I thought it would happen in the second or third book. Not like... right now but I like how different this Modred is from the myth. Kinda rooting for him with Guinevere as well. Then we have the Lancelot. I couldn't call dib on who the Lancelot will be, so I was surprised when they revealed the patchwork knight as the Lancelot. I think they were introduced a bit late in the story but I liked the surprise still. As for Guinevere herself. She was okay I guess? I like that she was written in a way that she is an enigma. The girl who doesn't know her old name, who her mother was, or how involved Merlin was in her life before. The Guinevere Deception's mystery doesn't always progress simply, and neither does Guinevere's understanding of her role in Camelot and what she wants it to be, but the novel nevertheless holds the reader's attention as Guinevere learns what it takes to be queen and protect Camelot.Despite that, Guinevere's character can be a bit infuriating. She was so naive and simply infantile; which you can see that in her ways of "protecting" the king. She jumped to conclusions so easily and dwells on solving the mystery which makes you wanna pull your hair sometimes. Hopefully, her character would grow in the next book. Meanwhile the rest of them? I would say it was okay but they lack backstory and connection with the main characters; such as Brangien or her story with Isolde. We only got a brief of it when she was caught scrying and that was it. All these characters were introduced on a surface level; I'm expecting we would be given a bit more in-depth in the sequel. -I almost wish this novel would discard its Arthurian roots and focus on being its distinct fantasy, free of all the usual baggage and spoilers. But as the first installment to the series, it has enough plotline and mystery to entice me to read the next book. And despite the shortcoming, I do find myself enjoying this.