I received this complimentary ARC from the publisher, courtesy of NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review.I was so excited for the release of this book and for the most part...it didn't disappoint. I'm pretty familiar with Arthurian mythology, so I think that if you are, as well, you might be able to predict some of the plot points! But there are also enough original twists in the story to also keep you guessing as you read. However, if you're fairly new to the Arthurian myths, everything is explained, so you don't feel like you're missing out on anything important. Can I just take a moment to appreciate a Guinevere-centred story for once? Finally, Arthur and Merlin aren't the sole stars of the show! Girl power for the winnnn! ;)I will admit that the pacing of this book, for the first two-thirds of the novel, is slowwww, and then it's really fast-paced for the last third, which is understandable. It definitely reads like a historical fiction novel as White sets up the backdrop of Camelot, which - due to being part of British folklore - greatly resembles mediaeval Britain. But despite the pacing, I wasn't bored throughout the book. It has knight tournaments, knot magic, enchanted trees, dangerous dragons, wicked faeries, and all sorts of other interesting elements. I especially enjoyed the original magic system using knots. I've never encountered that before. Usually depictions of Merlin's magic in other interpretations of Arthurian mythology tend to utilise elemental magic. I liked seeing Guinevere use something else to protect herself, as well as confronting the threats directed at Arthur and Camelot. White takes great lengths to demonstrate how young and unsure of herself Guinevere is, with a need to prove herself, and I found her to be an admirable protagonist. Arthur wasn't as developed, in my opinion. He's merely depicted as a caring king who always puts Camelot before his personal feelings and the people he values. Mordred was probably the most compelling character and, as usual, I ended up sympathising with him. (But then, he had to be HIMSELF ugh) I also loved Lancelot and shan't say anything else about the knight because it was a fun surprise. I wish we got to see more of Merlin and the other knights though. Gawain was always my favourite, as well as Percival, but they were only mentioned in passing a few times, unfortunately. I hope that we'll see more of them and Merlin in the future.This was a really good beginning to a fun trilogy and I can't wait to see what happens next. It's a tad slower than Illusions of Fate and Slayer, but it's still very enjoyable nonetheless. I highly recommend it for anyone who wants to experience the wonder and magic of Camelot.