[Also read 15 December 2007]Veralidaine "Daine" Sarrasi applies to work with Onua, the horse-master of the Queen's Riders, in order to outrun her past. In doing so, she stumbles across a hawk-man named Numair Salmalin, a mage who senses in her great wild magic. Now Daine's got to grow the hell up because hiding her past is getting in the way of being the bestest magelet that ever maged. 1. Daine's breadth of magic and how good she was at wielding it grew tiresome. Where's the true conflict if everything comes easy? And the conflict that was there--would she go "mad" and lose herself to the herd again?--was fixed with the snap of a finger, once she finally opened up a little. (Self-imposed conflict bothers me the most, especially in scenarios where it's clearly proven that the character's "society" has MORE than welcomed them into their open arms. In this case, it's more unbelievable that Onua and company would cast Daine out after all their slathering worship, so Daine's decision to withhold information comes across as foolish. The fact that this conflict breaks down so quickly under scrutiny really weakens the book for me. 2. That said, Daine was one of my first Tortallian heroines, so there's a familiarity there that breeds fondness. As a younger me, I liked Daine: she was struggling and isolated and special. Her story--in some ways--parallels Thom's, except that she is immediately surrounded if not overwhelmed by friends. But the tension-that-could-have-been is not there; there is never any concern that Daine will "go bad".(But just think of a moment between Daine and Alanna as Alanna recognizes the loneliness and the power in Daine, and she remembers Thom and shares his story and UGH THE POSSIBILITIES.)This reread just left me wanting more: more conflict, more complexity, more challenge. Alanna, for all my complaints, strove hard to become what she wanted to be: a lady knight, and hero. Daine, meanwhile, has all her cues laid out in front of her: wild magic, a powerful mage for a teacher, and a god-friend badger who will directly interfere if needed (whereas Alanna's Goddess smiled from afar and didn't meddle). It's just too easy. 3. STORMWINGS UGH. I will admit that they are monstrous and terrifying which is PERFECT, so thank you for that, Pierce. 4. The actual plot--that there's a Carthaki scheme afoot to overthrow Jonathan--is currently so thin I could sew with it. This book is more about setting Daine up and establishing the changes that have occurred in the 11(?) years of Jonathan's reign, so it's hard to comment on.