March 2022: Even after so many reads, this series conclusion never failed to make me emotional. Still one of the best and most satisfying endings I've ever read. ❤️❤️❤️------------------------------------May 2016: **All The Stars** Sometimes the price of dreams is achieving them. The price of reading an amazing series is finishing it and feeling lost. And the reward of rereading them is feeling that you've come home.-------------------------------------Jan 2016 (audio):Oh my goodness.. THE FEELS!!! 5-stars just don't seem enough to convey how much I love this series and its characters. Although a reread, I am again suffering from a hangover at the end of it. Definitely going to be rereading this series over and over again. "And I wish to thank you as well.""For what?""For reminding me that anyone, no matter what they've done, can find redemption if they seek it."-------------------------UpdateSo I received from the author a copy of the afterword which is only available in the paperback version of Percepliquis. Is it even possible for me to love this series even more after reading the afterword? In any case, I did! I've already mentioned that this is one of my favourite series now, but Michael J.Sullivan's afterword reinforced and elevated what I loved so much about The Riyria Revelations. Among all the contemporary fantasy reads out there today, Riyria stands out because of what it isn't. It isn't complex, detailed, epic, edgy or dark, nor does it try to be, except to simply tell an empathetic story which is thoroughly a joy to read. And I agree with the author that stories like these are rare. I'll leave an extract of Michael's afterword here as I think it speaks for itself. I wrote these books, because in our jaded, embittered world that is so eager to denounce happiness and happily-ever-after as a myth, such tales are rare, and yet are exactly the type of stories that I think are worth telling..Thank you Michael, for sharing these wonderful stories with us. ----------------------------May 2015 (e-book):I am approaching this review a bit differently to the other 2 earlier omnibus sets. This will be a review of the entire series, while my reviews of Wintertide and Percepliquis are posted for the individual books. I learnt that Michael J. Sullivan wrote all 6 books of Riyria Revelations before it was published, and it shows. The progression of the series was very well conceptualised–the growth of the story was one of the best I’ve read. I liked how it started on a much lighter note, drawing the reader into the world and introducing the wonderful Riyria pair. With each and every book, the back-stories of Hadrian and Royce were drawn out further, the stakes, tension and danger increased, and the scope of the story expanded. While not grimdark in any sense of the word, the author did not shy away from tragic and sometimes brutal deaths of some of the characters that we grew to love. The world-building was quite simple but solid and the story did not get mired in too many details that may detract from the characters and the plot. Speaking of characters, this is where the series truly shone and made it so difficult for me to leave this world. Words cannot express how much I love the relationship and dynamics between the Riyria pair, Hadrian and Royce - two characters of polar opposite personalities. Infatuated with the noble and idealistic Hadrian, and fascinated with the complex personality of dangerous and cynical Royce Melborn, I am so happy that we are getting more books on this pair via the Riyria Chronicles which will form the back stories of Riyria. Myron, the monk (the truest one to ever don such humble robes), and Nimbus, the courtier, are another two of my favourite characters. Every scene when either one of them appears in was a joy to read.Michael did something rare; he created female leads that I admire and love! Arista and Modina especially are truly amazing and strong women-not overly aggressive, condescending or bitchy like how some other stories tend to portray their female leads-and tinged with the right amount of vulnerability. And on this note, I need to mention that Michael’s dedication to his wife at the beginning of this book was absolutely beautiful. The finale as the mystery unravelled was amazing and while some may find it a bit clichéd, I for one positively loved it and it stayed in my mind for a long, long while. A lot of great fantasy books out there may have awesome and epic climaxes but it's how one handles the very end of the book after the climax when things wind down, which truly makes an impact. On that note, the very last paragraph of this last book was possibly the best ending of a series that I’ve ever read. I have mentioned in an earlier review, well-written fantasy tropes can be just plain fun. In the case of Riyria Revelations, the tropes are not overly formulated such that while it has elements of classic fantasy, I can’t really pigeon-hole the series into anything I’ve read thus far. It is simply a captivating story with wonderful characters that you do not want to leave. All I can say is that I have found myself another favourite author, and a new favourite series.