*** 5 ***A buddy read with the buddies, who joined together on a Fantasy quest to save the world, at BB&B!Wow!!! Just wow!!! I am not sure I have words! I just finished this series and I am glad that despite some very painful moments, which almost led me to depression and left me with the need to step away and take a break, I stuck with it to the end! This five star rating is not only for the last installment, which I found to be the strongest in its balance of prose and action, but for the feeling the series gave me over all!!! Michael Sullivan has realy created a beautiful, accessible, and very memorable peace of Fantasy! But its true strength is in its deep humanity and the ever present themes of guilt, self realization and forgiveness.... Forgiveness for all thoughts, weaknesses, actions and inactions.... About gaining the strength and being brave enough to choose to live life to the fullest, as well as deal with the questions of faith, destiny, and acceptance of all stops on the wheel of our lives...   “What's the advantage of fear or the benefit of regret or the bonus of granting misery a foothold even if death is embracing you? My old abbot used to say, "Life is only precious if you wish it to be." I look at it like the last bite of a wonderful meal. Do you enjoy it, or does the knowledge that there is no more to follow make it so bitter that you would ruin the experience? - Myron on facing death” Although the plot might be considered to be a typical adventure/quest Fantasy, this is very much of a character driven and vastly entertaining, as D. Hume would say, treatise on human nature... I can see the series being a wonderful tool in teaching a combination of classes on philosophy, creative writing, race relations, and even Jungian Analytical Psychology on archetypes and their variations... But the ones who would truly benefit are the young fantasy readers, for whom the ambiguity of the concepts for Honor, Bravery and Gallantry could get a shot of honesty and a spectrum of human experiences which install in us the desire to be better, do better and live better not by preaching, but just by allowing us to walk in the characters' shoes. I slowly fell in love with every one of our main characters, but I have to say that I was very partial to the two ladies Thrace-Modina and Arista, and the most amazingly endearing and scene stealing monk, Myron. I absolutely adore him!!! And yes, I also love Hadrian, Royce, Nimbus, Amilia, the dwarf and many others, but Myron was the soul of the series and I think almost everything that came out of his mouth in this book was quotation worthy!!!  “A beautiful day might bring disaster, while a day that begins trapped inside an ancient toom, might be the best one of your life. If you don´t abandon hope on pleasent days, why do so on those that begin poorly?” I hope that I can express what a feeling of awe this book left me with, but I know I am not so verbally inclined... I am a consumer of the beauty others put to paper and I feel privileged to read books and series like this one, the ones that start by engaging our minds, go straight to the heart and eventually bypass the brain all together to communicate with our human essence. I recommend this to all who love to read, despite the genre, young and old.!!! If you love stories of self discovery via adventure and fantasy, this one is for you!!! You will not be disappointed!!!Now I wish all of you Happy reading and may every book you read bring you joy and touch your soul!!!