I've been looking at my computer screen for a while, trying to find the proper words to describe Heir of Novron, but as it turns out I can't form coherent thoughts. Epic? Too cliché. Mind-blowing? Obviously. Extraordinary? Duh. Magnificent? Of course. Outstanding? Sure.I will ask you to allow me to be extravagant for once. Yes I am the girl who gets overly excited with almost everything she reads, who loves 90% of the books she so proudly admires in her bookselves, but this one, it's...different. It's sacred. It's a fantasy mastepiece, and a Horcrux. It holds a part of me. It contains my soul, my dreams, my tears, my happiness and my sorrow.“Ancient stones upon the LeeDusts of memories gone we seeOnce the center, once the allLost forever, fall the wall”From the enchanted cells of the Imperial Capital to the ancient, ruined city of Percepliquis and the tomb of Novron himself, Royce and Hadrian and Arista and the rest of our heroes discovered truths that turned their world upside down, fought for their lives and lost loved ones, while Modina tried to save mankind from a superior enemy and the Church struggled until the end to keep power, spreading the Great Lie. And the fate of them all was in the hands of two common thieves.“Sometimes the price of dreams is achieving them.”The circulation of Riyria Revelations is astonishing. Every character had something to offer, every hint and prophecy came true in one of the greatest (perhaps the greatest) finale in a series.Everything you expect to find in a work of fantasy is here.Mythical creatures (also known as thingy things-courtesy of Royce Melborn). Sieges. Battles. Murders. Betrayals. Elves. Dwarves. Goblins. Ancient cities full of mystery and danger. Shocking revelations (shocking is a mild description, more likely I'm-having-a-heart-attack revelations). Sacrifices. Honor. Love.Love in it's purest and most genuine forms. I couldn't be more wrong when I thought that there is no romance in these novels. It's not in the spotlight, but it's devastating, in a way that makes your insides burn but also in a way that leaves you puffy-eyed, your face stained with tears and ragged breath. And it's not just the romance. There are also the bonds of family and friendship and forgiveness even in the face of your greatest enemy."I wish to thank you as well, Royce.""For what?" "For reminding me that anyone, no matter what they've done, can find redemption if they seek it."The characters are flawed, weak, strong, stubborn, meek, ambitious, deathly, cunning, noble, real. Evil is made, and so is good. Their decisions can either atone for their sins or doom them into eternal darkness.“Happiness comes from moving toward something. When you run away, ofttimes you bring your misery with you.” I became emotional, I felt like my guts were stabbed, I gaped in shock, I laughed, I bawled like a baby and I loved, with all my heart. They say it's the simple things in life that are the most precious, like the summer breeze or a flower or a child's laughter. Or the words of a single man. The words of Michael J. Sullivan are branded on my soul.Thank you.