Heir of Novron is the omnibus containing Wintertide and Percepliquis, books 5 and 6 of Riyria Revelations.WintertideThis was a surprisingly short book. Not that its short length stopped Wintertide being one of the best books in the series. I loved this book. It was fast paced and exciting from start to finish and was filled with action, humor, intrigue, and adventure. Despite the fun feel to the book it was still full of plenty of dark and shocking moments. Especially towards the end! I loved Hadrian's time spent as a "false" knight. It was hilarious. I enjoyed how this installment of the series did a great job of further developing characters like Nimbus, Royce, and Modina. This was probably the peak time in the series for cool villains as Sauly, Archie, and Merrick were well developed and interesting characters. Rating: 5 stars. PercepliquisThis suffered from a slightly slow start. I like quest plot arcs in general and the team Modina put together to seek the Horn of Novron and the lost city of Percepliquis was a good one. Unfortunately the early stages of the journey were not all that exciting. The second half of the book was a lot more intense, both in pacing and in actual happenings. A lot of Sullivan's long running mysteries came to exciting fruition's. Some in quite surprising fashion! Myron and Magnus were the star picks from the secondary characters. I loved how both were developed over the course of the story. Royce, Hadrian, and Arista were as great as ever and I was happy Modina continued to progress in the right direction. I was not happy with everything. I was pretty disappointed with some Gwen related revelations and the source of the mysterious threat Esrahadden had long warned people about. I did enjoy this a lot and was mostly happy with the ending. Rating: 4 stars. Audio Note: Tim Gerard Reynolds narrated the whole Riyria Revelations series and did a good job. He has a talent for voice acting. It is just a pity he sometimes chooses awful accents for major characters!