Humour, tragedy, action, drama, adventure. This one had it all. After a patchy start in book 1 this omnibus has fully realized the development of this series into one of my all-time favourites. Heir of Novron featured an awesome cast of diverse, likeable characters with the protagonists from the previous books returning along with many of the great supporting characters. While the plot was in many ways a typical fantasy epic it was written masterfully and the tension remained high due to Sullivan’s ability to make standard fantasy scenarios seem fresh and unique and his willingness to brutally kill off even the most beloved and important of characters quicker than you can say ‘Red Wedding’.  Wintertide  - 4.5 Stars After the grim ending of the last book the start of ‘Wintertide’ is understandably tense. As the plot progresses the story picks up pace with all of the main characters who were previously scattered around the world now together in one place all snared in different ways in a complex web of danger and intrigue and locked in a battle against time.All of the main character from previous books returned in this one and put in some interesting turns. Amilia’s budding romance with Breckton was sweet and enjoyable (although I found Breckton himself to be a disappointingly boring and clichéd ‘white knight’ after the deft portrayal of his brother in the previous book) and the depths of her friendship and loyalty to Modina were moving. Arista’s brief interludes were brutal, towards the end even rivalling Modina’s earlier sections for being depressing and like Modina’s sections they were made all the more jarring for how they contrasted with the otherwise light-hearted tone and for me at times broke up the flow of the story. On the other hand while the premise of Hadrian’s plot was ridiculous for a load of reasons it also made for some extremely entertaining reading, with some great fish-out-of-water scenes, an interesting view into life at court (that didn’t become obsessed with chronicling every minor detail like other fantasy books) and the awesomeness of Hadrian’s pwning everyone at jousting. Royce’s rescue plan was also interesting, especially his confrontation with his arch-enemy Merrick. However this book ultimately belonged to Modina. After 2 books of being a mindless puppet the empress finally arrives. Her powerplay at the end of the books was awesome and it was especially cool that for once Royce and Hadrian didn’t save the day.The ending scenario to this had a clichéd, forced set up but that was quickly forgotten amidst the action, drama and tragedy of the final scenes as a trap was sprung and important characters were suddenly and unexpectedly killed off. The truth about these events, when they were finally revealed at the end of the last book, brilliantly drove home the tragedy and futility of this scene  especially Royce’s killing of Merrick, his oldest friend and despite his status as a villain one of the series best and most interesting characters  . Percepliquis  - 4.5 Stars This was another action packed instalment and a great end to the series. This story resolved around a clichéd set up: With an unstoppable, evil empire tearing through kingdom after kingdom a band of heroes was dispatched on a quest to find an ancient relic and save the world. However Sullivan wrote this story brilliantly and the journey was filled with intriguing mysteries, epic trials and the constant threat of sudden, brutal death, even for main characters, a threat Sullivan was merciless in following through with.  I mean 2 members of the party (and really likeable members at that) were eaten by goblins off-screen FFS. GRRM wouldn’t write that shit .A feature I really enjoyed about this book was the return of so many great secondary characters from earlier in the series. The appearances of Alric, Magnus and Lenare Pickering (who was a disappointingly underused character, delivering one of the most badass scenes in the entire series early on then remaining quietly in the background for the rest of the book. I thought she would have made an awesome addition to the quest but anyway….) all added greatly to the story, however the character that really came to the fore was Myron. I’m not normally a fan of preachy religious characters, either in fantasy or real life, however I found Myron to be easily one of my favourite elements of this book. He showed immense courage, determination and loyalty and while ‘badass’ might be a misnomer for the compassionate, obsessively bookish monk I can’t think of a better term. I really appreciated the way he showed courage  (His ‘Shut Up Hannibal’, delivered to the millienia old god-sorceror towards the end being the most obvious example)  without ever sacrificing his principals or feeling out of character. It’s a common trope that in order to show peaceful, religious characters are ‘badass’ they get angry and ditch their pacifist ideals to opens a proverbial can of whoopass (my favourite biblical proverb tbh), but I was glad Myron didn’t as I think it would have cheapened his character. Overall I found the ending to be extremely satisfying. It had elements of tragedy and sadness and avoided the fantasy series pitfall of having a naïve (and thus unbelievable and meaningless) happily ever after on the horizon, while still retaining an optimistic outlook for the future and, at the least, a well-earned happy ending for the heroes.  I was somewhat disappointed with Royce’s ending. The ‘reveal’ at the end was cheesy and badly worked. ‘btw Royce you have a 7 year old daughter who the woman you were in love with for the last 15 years and had been planning to marry decided not to tell you about, thus ensuring that you missed out on most of her childhood and a chance to develop a relationship with her because.. er… the plot.’ While it might sounds morbid I thought that Royce sacrificing himself would have been the best ending for him, especially as it would have made Gwen’s seemingly avoidable death mean something. I was also kind of pissed that Degan Gaunt, a cowardly, selfish possible rapist survived when so many awesome characters didn’t and was then rewarded by the heroes. On the Brightside I thought the ending for pretty much everyone else was perfect. After 6 books of will-they-won’t-they Arista and Hadrian ended up together, I was initially disappointed that Arista gave up her right as queen of Melengar but I was then really psyched about the revival of the Orders with Arista and Hadrian in charge (although I’m not exactly sure how Arista is going to teach magic. Wasn’t the ‘secret’ to her power that you just kind of… do it? Or am I mis-remembering?) I also thought the way the future of the empire was handled in this one was great. Modina was non-stop awesome since unleashing the kraken at the end of the previous book and I thought her plans for the Empire were perfect. I really appreciated her realistic planning for wars and political instability in the future, things most fantasy dismiss to try and force a ‘happy ending’. I was also really psyched at how she found the perfect place for all of the gang; Hadrian, Arista, Myron , Magnus… even Gaunt (unfortunately).  After a disappointing and patchy start in book 1 this series has gone from strength to strength. Each instalment has added something; another layer of depth to the main characters, more brilliantly drawn secondary characters, intriguing new facets to the world building. As another reviewer noted this series can be extremely hard to define within the genre and with each book that definition became harder. It combines warm humour with sudden, shocking tragedy, heroism and adventure with the unexpected and unchangeable consequences of violence. This series has been a great read and I look forward to seeing what Sullivan will do in the future.