So I didn't expect them to at all, but a little part of me was really hoping Scholastic would come to BEA with a stack of galleys for "Mockingjay" the way they did with "Catching Fire." Of course they didn't, they wouldn't want to ruin the end of the trilogy before it's released. But a girl can dream.So, anyway, there was a big gap in my galley pile that could only be filled by some quality YA distopian fiction. When I went to the YA Editors' Buzz panel and heard about "Matched" I thought "Yes! This is what I'll read instead."And then--blah. The editor dutifully talked this book up and it did not rise to my expectations. There is no urgency to this book at all, and it's not terribly creative. My favorite part of distopian fiction is slowly uncovering the new world the author has shaped. What are people's roles in this society? Why is everyone acting so weird? Ohh, what's that pill for?! But there was no real mystery here. Cassia's "Society" is pretty much just a cross between "The Giver" and "1984." But halfway through the book I really didn't care what the red pill did, and when we found out I thought "yeah, I guess that's about right." I also thought "If you're only allowed to take those pills at the command and in the presence of a high official, then why do people carry them around with them at all times, anyway? Shouldn't the officials just carry them so no one takes one accidentally, or on a dare?" But no, we had to manufacture the one thing everyone wonders about in this society, so it's there in their little tablet vials.And then plot is just a romance, and not a terribly compelling one. I know, I'm 27, and I'm not supposed to give a shit about teenage romance. But some authors make me care. Suzanne Collins made me care, John Green makes me care. This is more "Twilight" love triangle romance where I don't really care about anyone involved, and therefore am ambivalent about the outcome. And then there isn't really anything else to this story to keep me entertained. If we're supposed to care about the weird unrest occurring within "The Society" we're not given enough information to do so convincingly. So here I am, sitting with a bunch of 17-year-olds freaking out about first love, and I kind of want to punch them in the face.This book will probably be reasonably successful. Everyone loves a distopian future setting these days, and if "Twilight" is any indication, girls will gobble up the romance. (Although neither Ky nor Xander is the next Edward, so maybe I'm wrong. Teenagers these days, right?! Huh?) Me, I'm just going to wait impatiently for "Mockingjay" to finally come out.