What started out as an engaging novel about a charismatic bookstore became a nearly 300-page ode to Google and Millenial entitlement. Google was really the main character here. The Google butt-kissing started early, and served to make it so that I never once found Kat appealing or endearing. In fact, I felt that she was just a big, whiny child playing with shiny toys and having a temper tantrum when the things around her didn't go exactly her way. She basically represents everything about my generation that is awful, and is the reason why so many of us are struggling to find jobs (NOT at Google where, quite honestly, I had been desperate to work until I read this book). Our generation has a terrible reputation, and Sloan does a great job showcasing why, frankly, I wouldn't want to work with us either.The vast majority of the characters in this book feel entitled to knowledge that they haven't earned. Much like the ill-fated scientists in Jurassic Park, they stand on the shoulders of those who came before and - having skipped the hard work that requires patience and discipline - wield their new power with tremendous immaturity and disregard for the hard work of others. They also seemed to forgo adherence to things like laws, binding contracts, and the general principles of ownership since, you know, basic and understandable societal rules are in the way of what they want. I mean, for G-d's sake, they STEAL the property of a secret society and then just give it to Google. What on EARTH makes them think they have any right to do that? How did they not go to jail? The book BELONGED to the Unbroken Spine. It would have been one thing to steal it and try to decode it in the privacy of their homes using advanced technology, but to simply GIVE SOMEONE'S PROPERTY to one of the largest companies on Earth with zero consequences disgusted me.I also started to get sick of all these extraordinarily talented - and, in most cases, very wealthy and highly educated - characters spending all this time standing around and patting each other on the back for being so wonderful. The ending would really only be possible for super-rich, talented, and connected folks, not the average person looking for work or struggling through life in SF, a reality faced by myself and many of my friends every day. Most of us don't have rich friends to bail us out when we get stuck in crummy, going-nowhere jobs after plunging ourselves into debt for our now-useless degrees. Lucky for Clay, his happy ending is afforded to him by his chums with deep pockets. Hurray for Clay! Hurray for money! Isn't life wonderful?This book, while initially promising, was really a love note to entitlement and privilege. It left me feeling angry about the state of the world, especially the state of the city I cherish so much; a city where now, students can't afford to live even in basement "apartments" because these start-up tech industry folks will pay out the butt for them, so rent has been blown sky high. Screw you, Sloan, for trying to paint some sort of jaunty, sympathetic portrait of these hapless, childish, selfish idiots who are making life utter hell for the rest of us by sucking so hard at caring about anyone but themselves. It was also especially revolting to see the rampant nepotism of start-ups (which has screwed so many of us out of positions we've worked hard and studied hard to fill) played off as some cute, meaningful artifact of extra-best-friendship. This book encapsulates everything that sucks about SF right now, everything that sucks about my generation, in a 300-page nutshell.So, unless you want to read about some uber-privileged hipsters making all their dreams come true with loads of money and unearned knowledge, I suggest you take a hard pass on this one.