OK, I'm going to try something different with this review...a bit of snark!I have been wanting to read this one for so long. I was enchanted about the idea of this 24 hour book store. A book about a bookstore, with book references...yeah! But what I got instead, was a drinking game. That's at least what I got out of this one. The story starts with Clay Jannon, who has lost his job at a bagel place where he is doing tech work and then goes to work at Mr. Penumbra's 24 hour book store. He tells his story and I was a bit worried initially when he gets into tech talk about his job, doing web site design, coding, and more. Describing the bookstore was good, but then you keep hearing more and more tech jargon. I started getting bored, then it was GOOGLE this and that. Over and over again. So I decided when he was began talking tech, DRINK a shot! When he mentions GOOGLE, drink a double shot, DRINK! Oh wait, every time he opened his Mac book or closed his Mac book (never just a computer) DRINK! Oh my goodness! Anyway, Mr. Sloan is obviously a foodie - from the info on the job at the bagel place, to the risotto making roommate, to the...wait for it.... GOOGLE (DRINK!) cafeteria. Where he had the lentil salad that is awesome at the GOOGLE (DRINK!) cafeteria. But there's more, there is a heavy tequila shot you must DRINK when we hear about Steve Jobs, Apple, and Microsoft (DRINK!). At this point, I just don't care about the bookstore and how the GOOGLE (DRINK!) pixie chick with her friends help with....oh I dunno, I've had too much to drink by now.Seriously, I work in the tech field. I hear all this stuff all day, I write and read code, I read technical books, I write technical documents, I use GOOGLE (DRINK!) search engine for troubleshooting, and the last thing I want to do in my evenings is read a technical book. I had no idea this book would go down this path. I actually did a GOOGLE (DRINK!) search of Mr. Sloan to see if he was an employee at one time of GOOGLE (DRINK!). After awhile, I though he was this geeky tech guy who wrote a book about all his favorite stuff - coding, different programming languages, a friend whose company creates boobs for computer games, food, GOOGLE (DRINK!), and his favorite book. It was almost like he had this idea to create a video game but out of that instead came a book. So yeah, this did not work for me. But I've created a drinking game that is much more fun than quarters.I give it to the author as many people really do love this book. I listened to this one via audio and I really did like the narrator. I'm not done reading this authors books. I've been patiently waiting for his latest, which NG is making me wait forever on a decision. I do plan to read it. I just hope there are no references to GOOGLE (DRINK!) in it.One more thing.....I actually do not drink at all! :-)