Eugh.
I'm actually super bummed that this had as many ridiculous tropes as it did.It could have been so much and instead it opted to just be like everything else, with minimal creativity.My heart is sad.The promising plot tells of Kiva, who has been a prisoner in Zalindov for over a decade, working as their healer. She carves the mark into inmates when they arrive and does whatever it takes to survive. However some new arrivals and talks of a rebel queen leading an uprising on the outside are about to make things a little more interesting for Kiva.Firstly, I just didn't like her. Kiva was the very first cliché - the girl who won't let anyone get close because that way she won't get hurt. But for a girl who refuses to get close to anyone she sure gets emotionally attached, AND ends up with a lot of friends willing to do anything for her.Secondly, I feel like there was some questionable consistency. This particular band of prisoners seemingly having the run of the joint, Jaren being everywhere all the time even though he's supposed to be killing himself working these brutal shifts, Kiva spending ten years doing whatever it takes to survive then suddenly being willing to throw it all away on one random woman, having a magical potion on hand for everything ... like there were just a lot of things I raised my eyebrows at and even more that got a full 360 eye roll. Thirdly, THE TRIALS. What a complete disappointment they were. I'll refrain from detailing on account of not wanting to spoil for anyone, but I was utterly underwhelmed by what they all involved.Now, all those complaints aside, I didn't totally hate it. I'm frustrated by how ridiculous and cliché and nonsensical so much of it seemed, but I still wanted to keep reading, and I'm still curious about how the rest of the series is going to go down. So it wasn't completely terrible. I just didn't fall in love with any of the characters like I wanted to, and all of the twists were so trope-y that I was frustrated by them rather than entertained.It wasn't a terrible story, but it's definitely lacking the richness of the Akarnae series. It's gloomy yet much lighter than you'd expect for a story set in a prison where people are constantly worked to death, and there are a lot of different elements that don't really gel well together so it seems a bit chaotic in the writing.All in all, I was mostly disappointed because I was expecting great things and ended up with mediocre, done-to-death things. Hopefully the sequel is better.