These are so, so utterly beautiful.I have not actually read the Grisha Trilogy [okay. now I have.], only Six of Crows, but Bardugo's attention to detail in planning her Grisha world comes through in every one of her books that I've read. This one is no exception. Somehow, these stories are more than just folktales; they feel both like folktales told by your grandmother and ghost stories told by your friend beside a campfire. It wasn't the cannibal witch that bothered me. It wasn't even the selfish stepmother. For me, the real villain was Hansel and Gretel's father, a man so weak-willed, so cowardly, that he let his wicked wife send the children into the woods to die not once but twice. Don't go back, I would whisper as we approached the inevitable final illustration—happy father reunited with children, evil stepmother banished—and I was always left with a feeling of unease as I turned the last page.Above all, this collection subverts its source material in ways clever and creative and, always, compelling. If you're a fan of trope subversion, you'll love this.Also, please just look at the art. // THE STORY REVIEWS# Ayama and the Thorn Wood - ★★★★★This is like a mashup of Cinderella and Beauty & the Beast. It's a story about the power of being heard in a world that wants to shut your voice off. It's brilliant, and all the stories within are even more so. # The Too-Clever Fox - ★★★★☆I can't believe a story this short managed to make my spine tingle. Here, Bardugo tells the story of a clever fox and a hunter who is just as clever. This novella reads exactly like a word-of-mouth-tale, with an archetypal trickster character and several minor plot twists. This gets a five because I happened to guess a major plot point.# The Witch of Duva - ★★★★★This is one of the best short stories I have ever read. I ended in near tears. It's filled with Leigh Bardugo vibes. You can read this here. # The Little Knife - ★★★★★Oh my god this was just beautiful? It's a story about agency, especially of women. And the last illustration is genuinely one of the most beautiful things I've ever seen. # The Soldier Prince - ★★★★☆This story is eerie and heart-tingling and utterly fabulous. I adore how each fairy tale changes in vibe based on what country it originates from; this is a Kerch myth, and you can completely tell. # When Water Sang Fire - ★★★☆☆This was very good, and the artwork - especially the mermaids - was some of my favorite from the whole book. I also love the subversive nature of the retelling. But... idk, I feel somewhat baited? I thought the two girls were a couple for around ten pages when they're in fact just friends. VERDICT: What a collection. Highly recommended for anyone who's a fan of the Grisha world.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube