My thoughts in a nutshell It was a light, fun read. I wanted to love it but unfortunately, I wasn't the right audience for City of Ghosts.The story is about…Skip over this point if you don't like the sneak peek. Cassidy's parents are ghosthunters and they get an offer to make a series about Scottish ghost stories, so the whole family travel to Scotland and they visited creepy places. There is one problem; Cassidy can see ghosts and she gets into some serious trouble on holiday.  What impressed me the most 😊 I really enjoyed the story. When I was reading I realized that it is not a young adult book but middle grade. I thought I still like the middle-grade genre, but sadly, I have to say it loud I grew out of it. If I've read this at 10-12 years old, I would love it so much. So the problem is with me, not the book.The story is wonderfully atmospheric. I've felt the Scottish air and the creepy vibe.The main character Cassidy is an interesting little girl. Although she is only 12, she has a strong voice and she is surprisingly brave (sometimes she's even more brave than a 12 years old but it is a natural thing in a middle-grade book)She has a sidekick Jacob, who is a ghost. I like the friendship between them. I adored when they always mention their friend's rules. It was adorable.The ending was satisfying, but I won't read the second book.What I don't like at all ☹️ At times the plot was superficial. Sometimes too fast sometimes too slow. At the beginning I was bored then I was excited and these feelings were changing over and over again.Lara was also trivial, her presence was unimportant. I don't like when a character just an indigent.I don't understand the cover. Why is the cat on it? The cat was an unless part of the book. I don't get it.  Make a conclusion Overall, this is a great middle-grade read. I'm sad because I become too old for this. :'( I still highly recommend it for the young readers. They will enjoy it, I promise.I gave it 3 stars, by my personal experience.