“Stories have power," she says. "So long as you belive them.”Me loving this is no surprise. I love Victoria Schwab and I've loved every single book that I've read from her. She just has this way of sucking in the reader into her stories and I'm here for it. I really wanted to read Bridge of Souls as it came out recently. I ordered it and all, only to realise that I don't actually really remember what happened in the first two books. And of course I couldn't pass an opportunity to re-read a Victoria Schwab book. I alwasy make stupid excuses to re-read my favourite books, but here I actually had one that could be counted as a real reason to re-read a book, not just because I loved it. art by: Lemoncielart City of Ghosts is Schwab's middle grade series which follows a girl names Cassidy Blake. Since she's had a near death experience, Cass had been able to lift the Veil that separates the world of the living from the world of the dead. And when her parents host a TV show about the wolrd most haunted places, they end up going to Edinburgh. There's she meets a girl with the same gift as her and she figures that she has so much more to learn, especially when she realises the city of ghosts is more dangerous than she initialy thought. All the books that I've read from Victoria Schwab (her YA and adult books alike) have been pretty dark and this one is no exception really. For a middle grade it's pretty dark. Of course unlike her other works this has a lot of light hearted moments and it's a pretty easy book to fly through as it doesn't have those secret and hidden hard truths that her older books tend to have. I loved following Cassidy and her ghost friend, Jacob, along their journey in Edinburgh. despite this book being quite short, go through quite an adventure. I loved the dynamics between them and they way they interacted really. Their friend is just so cute and precious and I love it. The plot of the story is definitely intriguing. The author has a way with words and because of that I was never actually bored while reaidng this! The plot was very fast paced and I just had a great time reading (and re-reading) this. If you are able to get the audiobook, I strongly advice you to do it. Now while re-reading this I actually ended up listening to the audiobook and I juts loved it. The narrator had a really ncie and soothing voice. It feels like a shame not listening to the audiobook for this when it's done so well. If haven't read a Victoria Schwab book before, in my opinion, this is the place to start. If you are afraid of her denser, more adult books , just start with this as it's an excellent middle grade book and just a cute story overall. “Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?”__________________________And I'm done with my re-read. Now, let's go to the next book! RTC.