The second book of the Empire trilogy failed to hold a candle to the first one. While most of the characters remain interesting and the writing style has not changed, the plot has gone from mildly ponderous to thin, irrelevant, and suffering from way too much padding. It makes reading the second book right after the first one a disappointment, which is the reason why I've only given Servant of the Empire a rating of two stars.The largest gripe I have with this book is the introduction of Kevin. A noble-turned-slave from Midkemia, he would have been a standard character in Feist's other works. In Mara's world, however, he proved to be intrusive: he appeared in every chapter and was given a lot of spotlight, and his role to supply Midkemian insight into the world of Kelewan was potrayed with such annoying efficacy that it made me wonder why Feist even bothered with introducing the Tsurani culture in the first place. because apparently, Midkemian concepts of family, honour, and warring strategies were always better. It would have been surprising and delightful if Kevin's insight was proven to be wrong, or resulted in a disaster despite its goodwill, even if it only happened for a single occasion. Instead his advice trumped over Mara's own advisers', and with every validation to Kevin's suggestions Mara's advisers appeared less and less competent and Kevin appeared more and more a Gary Stu.The second problem was the number of plot threads left open which was quickly tied up by an event that happened off-stage. A major villain was killed... off-stage, during a melee that did not even involve Mara or Mara's allies. It was done so another major villain, who was more intelligent and had more cunning, could replace him in his role. This was poor writing, and could have been done in a more convincing way.The introduction of Milamber from the Riftwar Saga in this book was another major gripe. This is the first of Feist's trilogies that I've read, and I neither knew of nor empathised with the eponymous character from the Riftwar series. His actions in this book, defiantly opposing the traditions of Kelewan that ultimately started a conflict which killed many innocents, were very jarring and caused me to dislike his character despite Feist's attempts to justify this and make him look good. A foreigner who enforced his way of life upon an unfamiliar culture is not to be sympathised with; and Milamber was barely punished for his reckless, destructive outburst.So there. The reasons why this book was a huge disappointment from its predecessor. If only Feist had held himself back from playing favourites with Midkemia, this book would have been much less painful to read. The way it is, especially with the insufferable amount of padding throughout the middle parts of the book, I must warn anyone who has picked up this series to be wary of Servant of the Empire.