Servant of the Empire is the second book in The Empire Trilogy by Raymond E. Feist and Janny Wurts. This book continues with the same level of depth and nuance that the first book had, and the story continues to be full of political intrigue as well as having a few good moments of military action. The first book held my attention without fail, and I still enjoyed this book very much, but I did think it had several slow spots. Part of these were due to segments of the story where the characters were waiting for information or for something to happen, and sometimes I started to get a little restless. Other parts involved seeing events from the Tsurani perspective that were already familiar to me from the original Riftwar Saga, removing some of the suspense. On the other hand, I did also really enjoy seeing how those events affected people on Kelewan and how they played a role in larger events that we didn’t know about in the other subseries, and the story really did require that the events be explored in detail or it would have rung false.There was hardly any romance in the first book, but this one has a prominent romantic subplot. When I first read it in my early twenties, I was actually quite invested in that subplot. In fact, it’s one of the few things about the story that I still remembered from so long ago. This time around, I was less enthusiastic about it and I think this part of the story is really where most of the slower spots came from for me. It doesn’t use any really annoying romance tropes, at least not in my opinion. It’s handled pretty well, I just didn’t feel any investment in it this time. Mara is still quite young and I think her behavior was entirely realistic given her background and past experiences, but her obsession and confusion did get irritating sometimes. I found myself sympathizing with Nacoya quite a bit! I also had some trouble with Kevin’s behavior. I was disappointed with how easily he forgot his fellow slaves and how quickly he adapted to a life that went against his belief system for the sake of being with Mara. Of course, his influence played a huge role in the direction the story took and it wouldn’t have been the same story without that. I enjoyed a lot of the things Kevin brought to the story with his Kingdom perspective and his humor, but I think I would have liked it just a bit better if his influence had come without the serious romantic entanglement, maybe more of a relationship like what Mara and Lujan had. Overall though, despite a few slow moments, I still really enjoyed the story. There were some great moments, and I especially enjoyed how everything wrapped up toward the end. As with the first book, this one tells a complete and satisfying story, wrapping up all the main plot threads while leaving room for more story to answer the question of “What happens next?”. Since I don’t remember much about what happens next, I look forward to finding out again.I forgot to add this warning when I reviewed book 1, but both books 1 and 2 have a major spoiler on the map at the beginning of the book, at least in the U.S. Kindle editions I read. The Minwanabi estate is listed as “Acoma Estate (formerly Minwanabi)” and the Acoma estate is listed as “Old Acoma Estate”. This change doesn’t happen until near the end of the second book. I don’t remember noticing this when I originally read the series, so it may be an error that was introduced more recently when the e-books were created.