”Life would be so dull without enemies.”This book is twice the paging and half the plotting of the Daughter of the Empire. And a love triangle.Do you remember Mara? A girl who had to grow up quickly after her father and brother were killed, and she had to lead her family? In the first volume of the series, Daughter of the Empire, Mara suffered humiliation and abuse but managed to defeated many adversities, and the enemies of the Acoma family in an incredible whirlwind of intrigue, plotting and being two moves ahead of everybody else.The Servant of the Empire picks up practically immediately after these events. Lord Minawanabi solemnly swears bloody revenge against Lady Acoma and her family. Mara, although having gained influence in the Tsuranuanni Empire, is well aware that her position is not secure. Herein lies my first problem with The Servant of the Empire: it’s really hard to play the same trick twice. While the Acoma family was at the verge of extinction in the previous book, this time thanks to Mara’s ingeniousness, things are much better both politically, and economically. And yet, the opening chapters try to convince the reader of a looming disaster of epic proportions. How could that be credible? The Acoma are not on the brink of ruin any more! The ruling lady is more experienced, has a wide margin for manoeuvres and more assets at her disposal. The febrile undertones of the narrative ring falsely and unconvincing.The only thing that saved the book is Mara herself. Her character is built very artfully and in great detail that offers a fully multidimensional figure. It would seem that after the heartbreaking events of the previous book, Mara will not be able to develop further and will only settle in and mature, but here, the novel is a very positive surprise. Mara-Anni decides to buy a group of barbaric slaves who arouse both her irritation and certain fascination. Among them, you will find one who will not only open the girl's eyes to the world around her but also open her heart (though, as I said before: brace yourselves for a triangle). What I also liked was the fact that the world presented is much richer than in the previous volume. There are more families, more names, more places, and although it may bring chaos, when we deal with it, you will notice how beautiful and multi-layered is the Empire and its social order. The more pity that the intrigues in this instalment are so awfully puerile. In some way, Feist and Wurts had lost their strength and the second volume is weaker; still good level, but definitely missing something.In her splendid review  of the Daughter of the Empire carol. wrote: ”Mara develops the habit of keeping her plans to herself…This both aids and detracts the story; aiding because it keeps the reader in suspense about what she will do, but detracting because it means her actions are often not quite comprehensible to the reader…left with a culture and heroine that is just slightly incomprehensible.” To be honest, as much as I see the potential problem here, I loved the plotting in the Daughter of the Empire. Mara’s inscrutability, her ability to scheme in silence, to factor in other people’s virtues and vices into how events pan out, in the end, to take everything and everybody in one sweep and entirely by surprise - that was simply glorious and I enjoyed every page of this as it allowed me the double-guessing game. In this book we have two separate intrigues, so to speak. The first one is explained in detail by the plotting enemy so when things are put in motion, the reader can safely take a nap because the next couple of dozen hundred pages is obvious meeting predictable. The second plot is much wider. This is a very turbulent period for Kelewan: there is a devastating war with Midkemia, and the representatives of the families react against the removal of the Warlord and the Emperor's growing power supported by the Assembly of the magicians. But this power game sort of happens above Mara’s head rendering her a passive more often than active participant of the events. Additionally, this part of scheming is narrated by an outsider from another world for whom the majority of the imperial politics is as understandable as cold fusion. What it means is that we are told that something incredibly subtle and complex happens but how or why or in what precise way the moves and decisions are made - if you’d like to know that (I did!), you will be left wanting. What is described in detail is the senseless and chaotic violence of the imperial palace nights that not only reminded me the Hobbesian war of “all against all” but also proved all the intrigues obsolete in the face of naked force; playground games for bored, rich kids destroyed by brute power. This was the main reason why the intrigues created by the Authors failed to arouse any emotions in me. Descriptions of fights and landscapes, fantastic characters, delicate relationships between the families and the Council's Game itself, did not contribute too much to the main story.Here I need to put my two-pence against the antagonists too. All the scions of Minawanabi family make laughable enemies. The way they are portrayed, couples an inherent vicious streak and an unhealthy appetite for pain with telling, telling and more telling. To the contrary, Mara is both beautiful and smart and compassionate. She has the best set of advisers and warriors you could dream of. All her servants are as dedicated as sect members. Hint hint: Minawanabi are bad and dear reader you should shudder at the mere thought of them while your loyalty and heart should be inevitably invested in Mara - how crude a trick in a book about subtle schemes! We are repeatedly told how dangerous, smart and talented the Minawanabi are - we never see a shred of it. The Minawanabi suffer one defeat after another and are beaten by Mara or a twist of fate every single time. The near disaster moment at the end of the book just happens not because Mara does or does not do something and clearly not because the Minawanabi family has an upper hand. The convergence of various factors leads to a concatenation which plays out, without Mara’s merit. The barbarian slave is more important here as his views have a growing influence on the Lady’s decisions. It is under this influence that Mara changes her approach to tradition and honour, which are the most important values in Tsuranuanni society. As the Empire is at a turning point and it is a perfect time for change… change happens. And while it was nice to see how cultures are bared naked against each other (both figuratively and literally) and how things that were taken for granted need to be reexamined or else lose all rationale, it also meant that long (long!) buildups mount to nothing much the compromised spy network! or the enemies that become allies because and in the end reading most of the book feels simply pointless. And that’s an awful feeling to be left with after over 800 pages (and with another 800 more to come). Also in the series: 1. Daughter of the Empire ★★★★☆3. Mistress of the Empire