Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.An absolute blast from the first page to the last, and quite simply one of the greatest fantasy books of all time.As a prolific reader of fantasy books and very involved in the fantasy book reviewing community, I've had many people recommend that I read Kings of the Wyld. I've been very clear with people that one of my largest criteria for whether a book is good or not, is how fun it is to read - and virtually everyone I have spoken to about this book claims it is one of the most fun fantasy books written in recent years.I am pleased to say that not only do I fully agree with this assessment, I would go a major step further and say that this is one of the greatest fantasy books ever written. Story: 5/5The story here is somehow both a blend of something that has been done a thousand times, and something completely fresh and unique. At it's core it's about a father trying to rescue his daughter who is stuck in a castle that is besieged. But this basic premise is just a means to tell the true story here - which is a group of old retired mercenaries who have to "get the band back together" for one last adventure.This story is chalk with 70s rock references, but I do not think you need to have a deep appreciation, or really any appreciation for 70s rock to be able to thoroughly enjoy this story. But if you do, you will notice a large number of easter eggs sprinkled through this story that are fun every time you notice one. I have a decent knowledge of 70s rock and I picked up quite a few, and am confident that I missed a large number of them.The story is split up into three distinct portions - and while I do not want to ruin what each of these three entail, I will say that each of them are equally enjoyable. The plot here is not complex, but is riveting and will guaranteed put a huge smile on your face throughout the entire book and keep you entranced.The thing that is really special about this plot for me is that I am not used to reading a story with the heroes being older. 99% of fantasy books have protagonists ranging from children to adults in the their prime - and it is such a refreshing change of pace that it makes me honestly wonder why more stories don't utilize this as their hook. It's such a fun dynamic and I dearly with more authors would utilize it.World Building: 5/5The world building in this book is special. The world feels vivid and alive, with many different locations being visited throughout this book due to the characters never staying in one place more than a chapter or two, and each feels extremely well fleshed out. The world is a typical "D&D style" world - with some really unique aspects to it such as the "The Heartwyld" - an enormous forest that completely separates the two halves of this world - that is host to innumerable horrific beasts that the main characters must cross. Fantasy Elements: 5/5The fantasy elements to this book are so perfectly done. There isn't a heavy focus on magic in this book, but there is magical equipment aplenty, with fantastic backstories to each of them. There are innumerable mythical beasts that make an appearance here, some of which play central to the story with incredibly well written action sequences. There are magical portals, flying ships, and the list goes on, and on, and on. I love the non reliance on a magic system to tell this story, but that it also has countless examples of fantasy elements to the story littered throughout this book.Characters: 5/5The characters in "The Band" are really what makes this story special. Each of them slowly gets introduced in this book and the pacing at which it does this is absolute perfection because it gives plenty of time to explain their backstory, fully delve into their amazing personalities, and lets them slowly get integrated into the relationships with the rest of the main characters. They are all perfectly unique - and in the hallmark of a well written characters, each of them will long remain stuck in my brain.Writing Style: 5/5Okay I lied up above, the writing style is truly what makes this a special story. It blows my mind that an author who has never had a published book before this was able to churn out a masterpiece in writing such as this. The way he progresses this story is magnificent, with well described scenes and characters, constant hilarious banter between the characters that, and somehow he writes a book that parodies classic rock but within the confines of an epic fantasy story. It's a joy to read how Nicholas Eames constructs the words on the page, and I cannot wait to read more of his works in the future.Enjoyment: 5/5Few books have I enjoyed more than this one, and I can solidly say that this book is easily within my top 10 favorite books of all time. I will recommend this book to literally any fantasy fan going forward.