Down a path worn into the woods, past a stream and a hollowed-out log full of pill bugs and termites, was a glass coffin. It rested right on the ground, and in it slept a boy with horns on his head and ears as pointed as knives.First time reading Holly Black and I'm not disappointed.I was a bit skeptical at first because I heard her writing is similar to Cassandra Clare's, who I'm not really a fan of, but I'm glad to say the rumors were only and exactly rumors, and that Holly Black could give not only CC but a lot of authors a run for their money. And not only for what it concerns her writing style, but for the originality, too. This book is so wonderful and magical, it filled my heart with joy and hope and wonder. I don't know how to explain it better, but it was like reading in colors. I'm not really familiar with fairies and their legends, but I couldn't have chosen a better story to start from. Everything from the writing and the characterization of the various characters made me feel like I was not just reading this book, but being part of it, as well. I love Hazel and Ben Evans, they taught me so much in less than 300 pages. One with their music and the other with their courage, they made my heart skip beats. Their loyalty to one another is admirable, something most people would kill to achieve and that not everybody can have during an entire lifetime.I also loved how their roles weren't stereotyped and, for one, it's the girl who kicks ass and saves the day, and the guy just let's her be because that's how it works in here.Loved the romance, too. I mean, yeah, it was pretty cheesy (Severin, I'm looking at you, you old sap), but it was so cute I almost didn't notice the heavy postcard-like romance. And don't even let me start on how much I adore Jack Gordon. Holy Changeling, that boy deserves all the love a reader is capable of giving. I'll definitely give HB another try, mostly as a confirmation and especially because this novel gave me the chance to finally get introduced to the magical and dangerous world of Fairy Folk, and now I happily have another thing to obsess over. Ahem...Anyway, I'm so glad I decided to read this book. I feel like I'll be thinking about it for the next 300 years.Bless you, Holly Black.