4 magical faerie lore stars ⭐️  "Down a path worn into the woods, past a stream and a hollowed out log full of pill bugs and termites, was a glass coffin. It rested right on the ground, and in it slept a boy with horns on his head and ears as pointed as knives." This was my first Holly Black book and I was not disappointed!Hazel and Ben have lived in Fairfold all their lives, and as all the residents know, they share their town with the faerie folk. They take precautions, they know the rules, don't anger them, always bargain, and maybe you'll escape their tricks.In the forest inside a glass coffin lies a faerie prince. He has been there for years, even back when Hazel and Ben's mum was young; and they are both in love with the idea of waking him up.When the Prince is finally freed from his prison, all hell breaks loose. The Faeries aren't just being tricksters anymore - mortals are getting hurt, sometimes even killed. Hazel and Ben get involved to work out what is happening and why.I loved all the magical Faerie lore that is explored throughout this novel, at times pretty damn dark, but it was so interesting. I liked the characters, Hazel and Ben, Jack the changeling, the mysterious Prince and all the Faerie Folk. The plot was complex, and kept my interest.There was only 1 thing I didn't understand (unless I just missed it somewhere) The sword Heartsworn used to belong to the Alderking, but Hazel finds it on the floor in the forest. How did it get there? Who put it there? The Alderking originally thinks Severin has hidden it, but Severin has been in his glass coffin for way longer than that sword was on the floor with the dead school boy, so I was a bit lost on that part.I liked Hazel's double life with the Faerie Folk because of the bargain she made for her brother when she was young, I liked that twist .Also finding out who the monster was and what caused it to become that way, that was pretty cool.Overall a fascinating fantasy world, I just needed a bit of clarification in places.