4 stars. Look, I want to say, that I loved this book, but I didn’t love it since I had so many problems with it, yet at the same time really loved many elements of the book, so this four star rating makes me fell pretty conflicted about it. A bit of history between me and this author was that his Serpantwar Saga was one of the first truely epic fantasies that I ever read around a little two years ago? ish? I had, ultimately read other fantasy books, but not a lot of fantasy that would be considered ‘epics’ aside from Lord of the Rings and Earthsea if that is considered epic fantasy. In a way, I almost have to say that it was Serpantwar that propelled me to read more fantasy in a sense, even though by then, fantasy as already my favourite genre. Ultimately, I have read a lot more fantasy since then, and also more better fantasy in my opinion, such as  A Game of Thrones or anything by Brandon Sanderson really. Now Magician, in a way felt to me that it almost felt like then sort of book that tried to combine all the popular elements in fantasy at the time of publication, such as magic, elves, dwarves, dragons, etc. It is evident that there are many aspects influenced by Tolkien’s Middle Earth. There’s nothing wrong with that and I personally am a huge sucker for elves and the like, so I had no real problem with that. Dare I say it, but it almost felt that too many things were pushed into this one book, and that may seem surprising since it is over 800 pages, but as many people have mentioned, it the book does skip years at a time, which makes it feel more events are occurred than they actually have. He also does this in his later books, such as  Talon of a Silver Hawk. It’s a tad bit unusual and does make some parts of the book feel choppy and I feel like we do miss parts of a character. Furthermore, this singular book here as enough events in it to make it into a trilogy and by the end of the book, if all the threads are tied up(which they aren’t), the entire series could have been finished here. There is a lot of good stuff in here that makes it feel like it is definitely fantasy and there are numerous parts that does make me, a total fantasy nerd feel happy inside. It is very military centred and most of the important characters are all male, which is hugely typical of more traditional fantasy novels.Something I would like to bring everyone’s attention to is that the romances is this book are utterly garbage. Very rarely to we actually get a scene of interaction between male and female and then they are off proclaiming their love for each other. There are some nice moments, granted, but it still makes it feel weak. Almost everything is based off physical attraction and we straight up have century old Elf Queens needing a lord, which like, just feel so bad. There’s nothing that makes me feel that certain characters do in fact love each other, apart from the fact that every single woman in this book is stunningly beautiful in appearance. I far prefer modern fantasy which features strong female characters that actually have some flaws and are useful to the story other than just as a tool for big powerful dudes to lust over.Beyond that, the world building and history of everything is done pretty well and I really do like the world of Midkemia, though some things can feel a tad bit standard. However, it does feel pretty realistic and I know many people will disagree with me on this, but I like at how the world does not feel empty but rather is full of all sorts of things. It is clear that the author has planned out things pretty well and it works well. There’s politics, castles, lords and everything else expected in a medieval inspired society. I was a bit nervous at how the Kingdom was maintaining a war for so long, but thankfully it stated that the Kingdom was exhausted by the end of things.Overall, for it is, and that is, a traditional fantasy book written almost forty years ago, it’s pretty good and I really enjoyed and will be continuing on with the series. In terms of representation and the quality compared to lots of modern fantasy, it falls a bit short. 8/10