When I read a lot of Discworld twenty-odd years ago, it was clear the series was satirising countless tropes. Yet until now, despite spending a lot of my post-school social life with SFF geeks, I'd never read the background material in book form: chunky novels in which these fantasy clichés were used with a straight face, where it became evident just how laughable they were by the time Pratchett started writing Discworld.And as Magician (1982) was published the year before The Colour of Magic (1983), perhaps there's something of the apogee about it. (Incidentally, what would be equivalent 'serious' novels for Hitchhikers' Guide to the Galaxy?)A few years later, the earnest naivety of a story like Magician could never sound the same again. Except perhaps to a kid who stumbled on it unaware of how cliché-ridden it is - and many of the enthusiastic GR reviews are from people who first read it aged around 11-14, an age-group for which it almost seems intended, with its focus on adolescence and its remarkably clean content, which would pass muster with many prudish American parents. (Though the worst of those would still mind the fictional polytheism and occurrence of pregnancy outside marriage.) I found it weird how little smut, swearing and generalised grimdark there was, but after reading fourteen volumes of Hellblazer in four months, perhaps any old-school fantasy will seem super-clean by comparison. Magician seems as good an indicator as any of where fantasy fiction was at immediately before the Dark Age of comics and fantasy began, and why the reaction and satire in that era were necessary. Yet it's nice that books like this are still around to go back to. I can understand where Emma Sea's top review is coming from. This is a good book for bad times. It may be flat and mediocre in characterisation and prose - and there are times when readers my not want something spectacular anyway - but there's a great tenacity and endurance to the characters, and somehow, the sense of a long, grinding epic struggle is conveyed effectively without it being too depressing. It's useful, and somehow mostly likeable whilst reading, even though there are stick figures with more original personalities than several of Feist's characters. Magician, in being about a war with a civilisation from another planet, nominally combines SF and fantasy. However it is really more like a war between two different countries on a fantasy Earth, because the means of transport between the worlds is entirely out of fantasy - a magical rift in spacetime - and because of the relative similarity of the warring people, who seem to be members of the same human species separated thousands of years earlier, shunted from the same place of origin to their respective current planets, by cosmic magical forces, and now at similar medieval-like stages in their history - although the two societies do have very different magical systems. The main protagonist, Pug, whose origin is not explored in the novel (presumably that's later in the series) seems, rather like Luke Skywalker, designed to bring balance to the forces of these two systems.I started Magician straight after Ken Follett's The Pillars of the Earth, another 1980s doorstopper, which I absolutely loved. The flatness of Feist's characterisation and writing was very obvious in the days just after that, and how Follett had the skill to make dramatic, emotionally involving characters out of tropes. Yet by repeating some similar elements, e.g. talented orphan boys; that princesses could be the ultimate objects of crushes for boys in a medieval world influenced by chivalric court culture (whilst nowadays princesses are a definitively girly fandom) Feist reminded me that among the reasons I'd loved Follett's book so much was that it was years since I'd encountered some of the popular-fiction clichés it uses.I've no idea how a couple of reviewers managed to make a favourite character out of, or generate early crushes on, Prince Arutha, who seems to have no discernible traits beyond being a bit more impulsive than his brother - but then the adolescent mind can make an awful lot out of a vaguely nice-shaped cardboard cutout. (See also: most boyband members.). And I suppose that I, having imagined huntsman and tracker Martin Longbow (nearly all the names are this terrible, incidentally) a more weatherbeaten version of Robin of Sherwood as played by Michael Praed, but looking like he actually was a thirtysomething who'd spent most of his life outdoors, would have liked more scenes about him. He, like the protagonists, at least gets to be an archetype rather than a blank outline of nobility. But generic archetypes is about as good as you're going to get here.If you're a male character anyway. This is the sort of lazily conservative-by-default mediaevalesque fantasy where female characters are boring and mostly passive and have little to do, and little development. The few that there are all seem to be seen through the eyes of a nervous, polite early-teen nerdboy, one who has fallen for a 'popular' girl in an American high-school movie. Feist doesn't write the originally-teenaged characters very well as adults, and they become distant, with less and less from their close points of view, including their barely-described mature relationships: perhaps it's because they become ridiculously powerful and it's too much to imagine what that *feels like*. From skimming a bio, I'd assumed that Feist wrote this book in his early 20s, which would have explained the awkwardness when Pug and Tomas had become older than he was - however now I check, he went to college in his 30s and published the novel when he was nearly 40, so it wasn't that either. Its values are poised at a point that's clearly post-1960s, but only recently so; there are differences between generations and peoples over whether illegitimacy matters, but it's clear the author doesn't think it does. Princesses get to complain about being bored, and occasionally wear trousers and have short adventures, but they're mostly still boring damsels. It's clearly also way before the cultural shifts of the 2010s in fantasy fiction; it is certainly not ahead of its time as far as representation of social class, race and gender is concerned, on all of which it is close to repeating Tolkien. (If you've seen the Lord of the Rings films you already know what the elves, dwarves and rangers are like in Magician, even if you've never heard of Raymond E. Feist before. And, this review points out, where it doesn't copy Tolkien, it copies late-70s D&D.)In the penultimate chapter, there's a hint that Feist was using genre conventions without intending to support their values. Says a goblin-like being, " ‘I am but one of my master’s servants. The others are instructed to keep from your sight, for it was feared their presence might cause you some discomfort. My master lacked most of the human prejudices and was content to judge each creature he met on its own merits.’" Throughout the novel, there was previously no questioning of these prejudices and ongoing wars against some of the other intelligent humanoid species. The Tsurani civilisation (heavily inspired by M.A.R. Barker) is in some ways a lazy grab-bag of common Western ideas about China and Japan, but I would argue that its use in the book has other meanings too, albeit Americentric ones. The late 1970s and the 1980s were the years when the US was dealing with the cultural legacy of the Vietnam war, as shown in many action movies. In a longer, less-specific work like a fantasy doorstopper, you can also add the Korean war: to an American born just after WWII, the Far East had repeatedly been *the* theatre of war when he was young, so in the early 1980s it was one obvious choice to write about a war with a similar fictional place. The Kingdom's embattled 'West' (the Kingdom is the country the protagonists are from; their planet is Midkemia) can easily be read now as something lazily prejudicial, but a less kneejerk reading is that, like the West Coast where Feist has spent his life, it's between two "Easts": the US east coast, in some ways a different culture, and East Asia - and the way that the humans are relatively recent arrivals to their planet, echoes the colonisation of America by Europeans. And continuing the analogy, there was already other intelligent humanoid life on Midkemia when they arrived; the humans of the Kingdom are at war with those who weren't human allies in Tolkien.I don't know if much political commentary in 1982 was yet predicting the rise of China as 'sleeping giant'; I think that appeared mostly in the late 90s. However, there are elements to the Tsurani invasion of the Kingdom that can fit with that idea. It made me think about how political polarisation, and favoured foci of culture wars during the Trump years - and possible string-pulling behind the scenes of both - have meant, that, despite dystopian novels being a huge trend in the 2010s, there has been an absence of literary fiction reflecting on what the rise of China's hegemony and increased cultural influence might mean in the Anglosphere and the West. (On the left, from which most of the online commentary on contemporary literature comes, such fiction would risk being decried as racist, even if there are ways of making it about a regime, rather than everybody with heritage from a country; and the far right is rabidly obsessed with Islam - something China doesn't like either. A topic such as the rise of China instead has to be the province of non-fiction.)So, thinking of contemporary phenomena like the Belt & Road programme and online troll farms, there's something clumsily topical and cathartic about running into a nearly forty-year old novel in which invaders from this China-like society have, by means of a magical rift in spacetime, started covertly living on and digging in to parts of another planet, before the existing inhabitants discover them, and a resource war ensues. Likewise the culture-shock of the characters from both societies, in particular over the issue of individualist versus communal culture. (Some of which is all-too-obviously rooted in WWII encounters between American and Japanese forces, including Kamikaze pilots and PoWs - plus a few features of Ancient Rome.)It's rather grown-up having a resource war about metals as the focus of the novel, and young characters who ultimately prefer peace and trade; like the bit where Pug essentially says that he's too young to hold back from his career because of a girl, Feist is didactic from time to time. Especially in the early part of the novel, through both narrative and some characters, it feels strongly connected to the culture of the nerdy teenage boy fantasy fan, the sort who alternates between sounding like he's ten or forty-five and who has a penchant for speaking in cringeworthy, pompous cod-medieval English (there's a particularly excruciating drinking scene featuring Pug, Tomas and Roland where all three boys do that) - but, at least unlike his 2010s counterparts - I guess, sons - he tends towards the awkwardly chivalrous, not the trollish. (Or, as you could put it, benevolent sexism and an androcentric social world.)The other concept I found depth in is one which I'd always thought was Pratchett's, but turns out to be generic to fantasy: Thieves' Guilds. (Goodness knows I've hung out with enough ex-roleplayers; how did I not know it was a common feature?) Wikipedia tells me that Cervantes seems to have been the first known writer to use the idea. A friend reminds me that the idea of a Thieves' Guild is commonly seen as a broad comment on politics, about how some are allowed to steal from the populace, or questioning who the real outlaws are (and those criticisms can handily lean left or right as desired). However given debates of recent years, I couldn't help see in the Thieves' Guild concept a solution (suitable for one type of crime anyway) to the problem of carceral state versus those absurdly idealistic notions, with apparently minimal understanding of criminal and human psychology, that assume that if only society were better organised, crime would totally disappear. In a pragmatic and liberal outlook, it accepts that a certain amount of crime will always exist and a certain amount of uneven low-level extra "taxation" is okay.Magician was once hugely popular, and in 2003 it was still popular enough in the UK that it made the top 100 of the BBC Big Read poll for Britain's favourite books. Which is where I first heard of it and why I bought a copy in the year or so afterwards. I've been finding late 2020 is a good time to read old genre books like this (easy prose but long) - although, now, if you're going to read one post-Tolkien epic fantasy novel, when you don't usually read epic fantasy, that should probably be Game of Thrones. But I think Magician is a different proposition. The plot's stakes are high and the characters endure a lot - but essentially it's not a dark and aggressive book. Very few of the main cast get killed off. It's got more obvious comfort reading potential than GoT.In any case, it seems to have been read by, and influenced George R.R. Martin and J.K. Rowling. You can see their footprints here and what they picked up and trod over to their own signature works: there's the lost ancient civilisation of Dragon Lords called the Valheru; there's the ordinary orphan boy whose remarkable magical powers are only spotted at adolescence by his mentor, the plans to build an academy of magic.Magician would be a frustrating novel to read with high expectations, both in the generic nature of the story, and in details. If you know even a little about historical linguistics, you may be frustrated that names from disparate Earth languages are supposed to be from one language in the Kingdom or among the Tsurani, for example names that look Nahuatl in lists that are mostly East Asian (and even then whilst Chinese and Japanese might be geographically close, the mish-mash made of them here smacks of lazy Anglophones). It is super-generic, especially in the first 3/4 (meaning, for US readers, Magician: Apprentice and the first half of Magician: Master - there it's divided into two books), and as a wish-fulfilment fantasy for nerdy boys, but it's possible it might be interesting for others like me who've only read spoofs like Pratchett and Tom Holt, yet never the sort of thing they were spoofing. And as I said, there may be times when you don't want something too intense but which is nevertheless involving and distracting. For that, it can work.(read Nov-Dec 2020, reviewed Dec)