I should preface my review by stating that I only read this book because I was given a copy by a very good friend of mine. I read it because I wanted to know how it all ended and to be done with the series. I had no good expectations of this book because I was less than impressed with Blood Promises and despised Spirit Bound. People in love with this series should stop reading about now. Because, to be honest, reading this book was like reading an alcoholic unicorn chucking-up rainbows while small children clap. If that sounds kind of awesome then I think life may not have been kind to you.I should also preface by saying that I am neither Team Adrian nor Team Dimitri, though I am most certainly Team Shut-The-Hell-Up-Rose! Every big problem I have with the series shows up in this book and it is fuelled by Mead's juvenile love of infantile plot and soap-opera worthy melodrama. For one, Rose, who I had believed to be a half-decent character even by the end of Blood Promises, continues her nose-dive into craptastic whore and regular pain-in-the-arse-brat. I have heard several times that she ‘grows’ in this book. Unless these people are on a measuring scale comparable to the rate of growth for the shifting of giant fucking glaciers over a matter of hours, then I think some people are deluding themselves. You know, I don’t even mind a bratty character as long as it’s obvious by the surrounding text, story, and supporting characters that she is a giant brat who deserves to get bitch slapped. Preferably by Wayne Brady.However, everyone in this series fawns over Rose as if she’s the second coming of the butt-kicking messiah and she is constantly praised as a hero of legendary proportions who is kind, caring, selfless and always there for others. Rose’s minor, trivial and easily forgotten concerns over the lives she’s ruined to achieve her ends are quickly dismissed at the end of the story. No. Rose Hathaway doesn’t ruin lives. She saves them. She doesn’t demand people give up their only daughter to a life of vicious court politics just so her best friend gets a freakin’ council vote. She doesn’t expect her friends to jeopardize their careers to help her with her love life/criminal career only to ditch them immediately after because, hey, their concerns aren’t her concerns. She doesn’t heartlessly cheat on her boyfriend, acknowledge to herself that it’s a bad time to dump him because he could still be useful and then later tell him off for being a victim in her great dumping speech.Nooo…er, wait. Yeah, she does do all of that.Then, of course, is Rose’s great love of public speaking which, once again, pops up in this book.Christian: Hey Rose, did you ever think it might be a good idea to tell the authorities and your friends about who the killer is first, in private, so that some of them aren't publicly humiliated and embarrassed while having their world pulled out from under them in front of hundreds of people?Rose: Er…Christian: Yeah, that’s what I thought…The girl needs to line up at the Ministry of Ridiculous Speeches (right next to the Ministry of Silly Walks) to get public funding every time the council is stupid enough to let her have free reign on a mic. Which, by the way, has so far been pretty much EVERY time. You’d think they would have learned by now and Kung Fu’d her vocal chords before she could open her stupid mouth at a public function.There is of course, someone more annoying. In fact, he's so annoying that he almost makes you feel SORRY for Rose. Which, when you think about it, is comparable to making you feel bad for King Henry VIII for having to kill so many of his wives in order to get a son. Have I mentioned before that this guy is particularly dickish? Look, Dimitri, I know that in Soviet Russia, things are done differently, okay?[image error]But things are different in America. I’m going to give you a scenario of what Rose SHOULD have done, just so that you can see how badly you fuck up as a romantic interest.“Rose,” Dimitri murmured, his hand caressing her cheek after a seriously kick-arse battle in which evil has been defeated and Rose and Dimitri fought like they were having a sex metaphor. “Your hair is beautiful… and I care for you.”Rose’s eyes lit up. Finally, this is what she’s been waiting for. After all the heart ache, all the disappointment, all of the dashed-dreams! “Really, Dimitri? Do you think maybe… can you love again?”Dimitri’s gaze drops and his features stiffen as flakes of snow drop around them in some crazy literary metaphor for dramatic tension. “We can’t talk about it. It’s not right.”Rose stops, her face screwing into annoyance. “What do you mean we can’t talk about it? Why can’t we talk about it?”He turns away, with a flash of cold eyes. His shoulders are stiff and his voice is chilling. “Nothing. We have to go.”Rose’s jaw drops and she stares at him in disbelief. “If we can’t talk about it then why the fuck did you bring it up?”Dimitri glances back in confusion. “What do you mean, Rose? Er… not that we should be talking about this or anything… but, really, what do you mean?”Rose crosses her arms over her chest, shaking her head in disbelief. “If you don’t want to talk about it then stop getting me into sexually charged situations and making mysterious comments about how beautiful I am. It’s kind of unfair, don’t you think?”Dimitri stares into her face with a blank expression, shock colouring his features into stupid disbelief. Finally, he stammers and coughs. “We really shouldn’t talk about this. It isn’t right…”Rose huffs, flips him the bird and walks off. “Right. I’m going to go have mind-blowing, awesome, earth-shattering sex with Adrian. Fuck you, wanker!”You see what you did there, Dimitri? You’re an asswipe.  Even the guys from Jersey Shore think you’re a dick. Finally, my biggest problem with this book is that Mead’s writing is over-commercialized dog-shit that has been lazily written, terribly edited and slapped together all in the name of making a quick buck. The ridiculous typos alone in this book were offensive to the reader. I wasn’t even in editing mode and I counted seventeen typos. That’s not counting the grammatical errors I found when I actually looked. Clearly producing a well-edited, quality product was nowhere near as important as slapping a dramatic cover on the front and shipping out this mess.