*Heavy Sigh*This review and more of a rant that contains spoilers, so consider yourself warned…Just mustering up the details of this book in order to write a synopsis takes extreme effort. After reading 600 pages of this mess, I’m not sure I have it in me to recount everything, actually, I know I don’t, there is simply too much that happens and yet none of it was worth reading. This is what you need to know.Lissa, Abe, Christian, Adrian, Eddie, Mikhail, and Dimitri break Rose out of jail. Rose then escapes court with Dimitri where they latter meet up with Sydney who is being blackmailed by Abe to assist Rose and keep her hidden until he, Lissa, Christian, Adrian, and Co. can clear Rose’s tainted name.While Rose, Dimitri and Sydney stay hidden, Rose manages to do the following things (aside from lusting after Dimitri while mentally telling herself she is over him):•	Dream walk with Victor. Naturally, Rose being an impulsive dumbass, tells him her exact location, plans to find the last Dragomir (Lissa’s half-sibling) and later clues she has uncovered about said half sibling. •	Find Sonya Karp, her former teacher, who turned strigoi in order to stave off the effects of spirit, as she supposedly knows the identity of Lissa’s long lost sibling. Sydney discovered this while searching bank records.•	Now that Rose and Victor are bosom buddies, Victor has his brother Robert heal Sonya with spirit to turn her back into a Moroi so that she will have to tell them the secret identity of Lissa’s long lost sibling.•	Rose and Co learn that Jill is the long lost sibling. They go to find her, and Victor, true to form kidnaps her. That was a huge surprise…..not.•	Rose rescues Jill and kills Victor, and then proceeds to feel very bad about it, but only for three pages.•	Rose and Dimitri do it, while she is still with Adrian I might add, but don’t worry, it isn’t cheating, because she mentally dumped Adrian before she dropped her knickers.Meanwhile, back at court:•	Lissa has been nominated as a candidate to become queen.•	She takes a series of tests to become queen, which we are privy to via Rose’s ability to snap into her mind. Naturally, Lissa passes all of them.•	Lissa and Co. play detective, questioning Ambrose and a few others. They uncover a series of very lame clues, that all point to the red herring, Daniella, Adrian’s mother.With Jill in tow, Rose, Dimitri, and the now reformed Sonya Karp head back to court, where Rose exposes herself, Jill’s identity and the name of Tatiana’s murderer, who is revealed to be Tasha Ozera, Christian’s aunt. Naturally she does this in a crowded room, because heaven forbid she find a thoughtful way to break the news to her best friend that her dad was a cheating feign who spawned an illegitimate sibling or to her best friends’ man, that his aunt is a murdering loon? But tactful as ever Rose breaks this gut wrenching news as eloquently as a charging bull, and everyone takes her word for it, because who wouldn’t trust a lying, conniving, impulsive 18 year old girl? Tasha of course goes on a psychotic rampage, even though her character has been thoughtful and intelligent thus far, and attempts to shoot Lissa. Luckily Rose jumps in front of her just in time. * It is here that I paused to pray that Rose would die*. Sadly, my prayers were not answered, Rose lives, and as an added benefit, her “bond” to Lissa is severed. Rose is now her own person, no longer linked to spirit. I don’t understand how or why, but there ya go. In the last few pages, Adrian confronts Rose for being a cheater and basically calls her a manipulative, lying, user and abuser, and wishes her a life of misery, after all, because of Rose, Eddie may never work again, Jill is now bound to court politics, where her life will be in constant peril, and Sydney is now locked in alchemist prison. In spite of the carnage, Rose believes Adrian’s accusations are unjust, and paints his willingness to cast himself in the role of victim as the cause for his outburst. I will say this, I envy Rose for her ego. Lastly we learn that Rose has been assigned as guardian to Lissa, who is now queen, and Dimitri will be guardian to Christian. They all live happily ever after.Qualms:•	The consistent break in cannon. Rose was able to communicate with Tatiana while in jail at court through the spirit ether, when in previous books; court was her only relief from the spirit induced hallucinations due to its heavily warded state.•	Tasha Ozera as the killer. Come on, talk about a bitch move on Mead’s part. The woman’s got a burnt off face, a tainted family name, and lost the man she loved to a spoiled, whorish-17 year old.•	The lack of Christian, or even Eddie for that matter. Characters who weren’t introduced until book 4 play a larger role than these fan favorites. Probably because Mead lacks the skills to write such a convoluted, wonky story with the characters she already had in place.•	The ease with which Rose discovers Jill’s identity. Seriously, it took all of ten pages when you cut the filler. That’s bogus. How would such a lame cover up have survived 15 years? And if it was that easy for Rose, why wasn’t it that easy for queen Tatiana, who had endless resources? •	Rose and Dimitri’s relationship. Seriously, it was bull shit, all this, I love you but can’t be with you because I used to be evil crap. Then Rose later pretending she isn’t obsessed with Dimitri while obsessing over Dimitri. Not to mention that when the relationship started, it was illegal in most states.•	The inclusion of the Keepers, who’s purpose to this story remains to be seen, yet they take up at least 100 pages of this book.•	Mead’s inability to further mention Dimitri’s family, who were made oh so important in book 4 only to never be heard from or seen again.•	On that note, there was no mention of Mia either.•	Or those pesky tarot card readings that seemed so like portents…•	And I have yet to decipher who or what the last sacrifice was…Tasha maybe? She was certainly thrown under the bus.•	Last but not least, Rose the Harlot. Not only did this asshole of a character fail to develop, she digressed to the lowest of the low, and yet we readers are supposed to think she is fantastic. I’m at a complete loss as to why this deplorable character has so many fans. She complained for 5 books about how much she secretly resented Lissa’s dependence on her, and when Lissa exerts her independence to not only take care of herself, but Rose too, Rose complains. Then there is her treatment of Adrian. Adrian risks his life to protect her, and when she has the opportunity to tell him the truth about her and Dimitri, she doesn’t, why, because, and I quote “I might need him later, but soon, I’ll do the right thing soon”. Oh Rose, how noble you are to do the right thing only when it is convenient for you.At this, I will cease my rant, because truly, I’m not sure it will ever end.