I read this as part of the #TBRTakedown and I have to say I didn't know exactly what I was getting into when I began this as it's set in a rather 'prim and proper' society, not what I usually read. This is a fairly classical story with many of the same elements as those in jane Eyre (which is what Kowal states as a large influence) and I freely admit that I have yet to read (and may not ever read) Jane Eyre. However, despite my usual disinterest in classics I am in no way put off by the language or period, I just like books with magic, and this one had a blend of all three.This is set in Regency England and follows a young lady called Jane. She's known by her friends and neighbours as a women with high skill at manipulation of Glamour (the magic of this world) but, although this is a great and artistic talent, she's not the prettiest lady around. Jane is getting on a little (by the standards of the day of course, not modern standards) and even she believes herself to be a spinster of a sort because she's yet to find a husband. She practises her Glamour regularly and happily amuses her family and friends with her skills, but she does long for a little more and when the Dunkirks move in as new neighbours she discovers the potential for new romance, friends, magic and mischief.When I began this I was a little unsure of how I would feel because although I enjoyed the writing style immediately (and I do believe Kowal writes beautifully and convincingly) it's a lot shorter than I tend to usually go for and I was worried I may feel it was underdeveloped. This was certainly not the case. The story began slowly by easing us into the characters and showing us hints at who they are, their passions and their personalities. Once the groundwork is laid we then begin to see the weavings of a story and this only continues to gain more drama and excitement as it goes on.The magic of this world, although never expressly explained, is a lot of fun because by manipulating strands from the Ether you can craft weaves that will display anything you desire and have the skill to craft. The art is highly revered but actually few have the level of skill that Jane does and when she encounters someone in the book whose skills amaze her, well there truly is something magical going on then!As for the magic, I found I didn't need an exact explanation because I could envision and picture everything as it was described and having the mystery of the magic made it even more surreal and wondrous. I enjoyed seeing the application of Glamour to dresses, furniture, music, plays and even decor and I think it certainly is inspiring and exciting in the potential it has. On the whole this may not be an epic fantasy like I am usually reading, but as a surprising little story it really did have some wonderful moments and despite some of the predictable moments, it managed to make me smile or fret over the characters within. I would rate it a 4.5* and I will certainly continue with the series as I already have book 2 and 3 and having enjoyed this one an awful lot I look forward to getting to them. Recommended :)