When approaching this book in a review, one shouldn't ask the question of what went wrong here but rather what was good. However, the good amounts to a sentence or two and that's boring. So, the good: I thought the concept and the convoluted plot in theory were interesting. Unfortunately, the author did not live up to the potential. I don't, however, feel it's so much the case of good idea gone bad so much as it was really horrible writing. I know I've complained about prose in the past but this tops them all. I know what I'm going to write here will be lost on those who haven't read the book because, taken out of context, it really doesn't seem all that bad. And, for the most part, it isn't all that bad when handled by a (much better) author. What am I talking about? Well, when writing description, Ms. Sagara repeats herself in the same sentence or the next sentence. This is a common practice, certainly, when emphasis is needed or something similar. However, she does this with almost EVERY description or action. Honest to god, this 'novel' felt like a Nanowrimo reject. A lot of people say (when doing Nano) to repeat everything twice because it ups your word count (which is the only important about Nano) and Ms. Sagara took that to heart. I've never, ever thought of any other published book (by a traditional publishing house) as being that way. Ms. Sagara is the first. Thank you for popping that cherry, Ms. Sagara.Here are some examples (paraphrased as I listened to the audiobook):'His wings are strong, stronger then when he was flying on patrol.''His bronzed feet, his now ash covered bronzed feet, gleamed ...''She went forward and forward again.''She made a motion to her to stay quiet, as if she's talk out of turn.''He soared. Up into the sky!''He went up and continued up...'Taken individually, these aren't a problem but this is how she writes every goddamn description in the entire fucking book. I was feeling lucky that she wasn't doing the annoying Nanowrimo trick of having people repeat the other characters in book but, damn it, about 75% into the book she starts that too. The oft cliche of:'K, is there something you're not telling me?''M, is there something I'm not telling you?'This she does multiple times in each chapter once you get past 75% (along with character 'dialog' that consists of people just saying each others names.)The second OMG hurdle is the world building. I can't say if it sucked or if it was just the fact that the author flung everything at the reading, all at once. This is in a fantasy setting, which is enough of a problem already on its own, without throwing everything else at the reader. It was just too much and she did nothing to blunt the blow.You know how some fantasy authors will take the hand of the reader and gently cox them into the warm waters of a story via the kiddie side, remaining beside you for that little bit it takes to learn how to float or to stand on your feet?Yeah. That didn't happen here. It felt like I (the reader) was rushing home in the middle of winter and some strange person beat me over the head in unconsciousness. I then wake to find myself in the dark, bound and gagged, and unceremoniously kicked into a deep end of a empty pool. Then, after that moment it takes to make certain I was unhurt and could stand, having all of that ice-cold water all dump onto me along with a cow (because, WTF, right? Can't get any worse...)This world has seven, possible eight, distinct races. And six of those have parts in this story. We have mortals and immortals.And what's this I hear you ask? How can you live without the cliches of UF NOT being in a fantasy novel? Well, I have good news for you! She threw in vampires and zombies too. Because dragons and flying men and lions who walk on two feet aren't enough. Yay...The social structure isn't really given much attention. There are Hawks, Wolves, and Swords, but we don't really get a clear idea of what they do. Hawks supposedly uphold the law but there really wasn't much of that happening (considering that she tried to kill someone in front of others on numerous occasions and doesn't actually listen to the law...) It might've been more bearable if the MC wasn't so ... so ... well, words escape me. I want to call her a fucking moron but I think that's insulting fucking morons. She was rude and impatient. I felt (sort of) sorry for her in the beginning but really wanted to kick her for the rest. Oh, and she's a Mary Sue. Pretty much every man wants her from the get-go. This book reads like it was a horrible Tamara Pierce fanfiction in its last incarnation...