Fitzchivalry really does feel sorry for himself. He is very whiney at times, and this is often misinterpreted as self-indulgent uselessness. But, in my opinion, that’s completely unfair. Resting on his shoulders is a whole host of burdens. They would, no doubt, overcome a lesser man. Every decision he makes is hindered by his obligations. Indeed, nothing is easy for Fitz; he is restricted by his position in the world. This doesn’t make him useless, but limited in the actual paths he can take. Sometimes he doesn’t really have a choice, so his inaction can be seen as hesitation whilst he tries to find the best path.  A touch of Romance in the chaosSomehow amongst his vast duties to his King, which include being his personal assassin and a reservoir of magical strength for his son, Fitz manages to find romance. This is a feat in itself because Fitz is also magically bonded to a wolf, which demands a great deal of his already sought after attention. And to top it off, he is hunting down and killing those that have had their minds destroyed by the mysterious invaders. Then there’s the skill magic which is a constant drain on his mental and physical resources. So, the fact that he has actually managed to find love, in this quagmire of murder and court intrigue, is truly remarkable. However, this could never become serious in this moment of FitzChivalry’s life because he just has too much going on. Therefore, what will lead him into love will, ultimately, lead him out of it. Fitz is a king’s man, and that must always come first. His honour demands it; the six duchies demand it, and his masters demand it. He has no choice but to give everything he has over to the Farseer reign; he has to because they have no hope of defeating the red ships without him. Fitz simply isn’t ready for the relationship he pursues, which, of course, he doesn’t really know. Not yet anyway. I guess he learns a lot through this novel and, as ever, develops into a better person. Life certainly isn’t easy for Fitz.  A king that could (should?) have been  A moment presents itself in this novel; it is a moment that would have changed Fitz’s life forever; it is a moment that would have changed the six duchies, and the nature of this story, forever if Fitz has given in to temptation. His honour and integrity are immortalised in this moment; it was at this point in the story that I realised the true nature of the protagonist. He is an assassin, but his personality is more suited to that of a noble knight. Fitz will always come through in the end, but it’s good to know where his loyalties lie. He will always have a role to play; he will always be truly loyal to the Farseer throne, but could never take it for himself. He is “sacrifice” not King. Something tells me there are the pale fingers of the Fool in all of this; he doesn’t want his catalyst, and his pack, tied down. “Come, hunt with me, the invitation whispers in my heart. Leave the pain behind and let your life be your own again. There is a place where all time is now, and the choices are simple and always your own. Wolves have no kings.”This novel was so much better than the first one, which says a lot considering I gave that five stars. I think this is mainly because Fitz has a much larger role to play. He can change things and has strong political opportunities of his own; he can, essentially, become more than he is, if he so chose. Fitz was too young to alter the fate of the Six Duchies before. Now, in this, he is much older. His voice has more weight and his actions have larger consequences. However, he may be older, but he still hasn’t fully developed his wisdom. When the chance comes for justice he almost loses everything; he will most certainly learn from this most reckless error. I love the magic; I love the characters; I love the writing: I simply love it all. The Farseer Trilogy 1. Assassin's Apprentice-An overwhelming five stars 2. Royal Assassin- A character defining five stars