[4.5 stars]I got cheated, I thought that this is a nice boring story about a nice boy with a nice doggy who grows up to be a nice assassin in a nice castle. Well no one freaking mentioned all the angst and feels and the shit that goes down, and that spawn of Satan, Regal that needs to choke on a fish bone and die a most horrible death!!Okay okay, let me take a breather and try to be coherent.. Obviously I loved this book to pieces (I mean I finished the almost 700 pages in 2 days), Robin Hobb has a way of writing plot and characters that despite the slowness it just gets under your skin and you can never stop thinking about it. I love that in a series, if it gets me obsessed then I call it a success.Plot is clearer in Royal Assassin, the villains become more fleshed out (AHH JUST THINKING ABOUT THAT ASSHOLE!), and the characters get even more depth.. Can we talk about how amazing Patience is? or how awesome it is that Robin Hobb wrote her back in the 90s to be a reincarnation of Helena Bonham Carter before she even became THE Helena Bonham Carter, which is probably one of the reasons I love Patience so much. All her scenes are either hilarious or just punches you in the chest.Burrich was another great surprise, I loved him in the second half of Assassin's Apprentice but in this book, this dude is made of glory. Fitz of course is a no brainer, I'm reserving my overflowing gushing till he grows up a little bit because currently he is still in the emo hormonal teenage phase (think Order of the Phoenix) although quite understandable considering all the trauma he went through.The Fool? one word: MORE! I need more of him, we only get a glimpse of his past in this book, and it's just enough of a tease to make us ask more questions about him! No one knows anything about his age, his sex, or what/who he is, and he only opens up (barely) to Fitz (so I obviously ship it now) and we do see more of him here, he's no longer always acting like a..well fool for lack of a better word, there's a quiet intensity to him, and oh my god I just love him and can't wait to peel more and more of his character's layers.The fool by HerrMagermilch on DeviantartOf course there's a bunch more of characters, Kettricken (BAMF and quite the inspirational speaker) and Verity (heart throb and glorious generally speaking).. In conclusion, I'll reserve my heartiest recommendations till I finish the third book, but so far I've been pleasantly surprised by where the trilogy is going so far, I'm enjoying it thoroughly (along with the audiobook to help speed things up) and I honestly didn't mind the slowness and the repetition because the characters are what made this behemoth a huge win for me!