Starting a middle book of the series is never an easy endeavor, especially if you loved the first book because there are certain expectations and funny thing about expectations is that no matter how small they are, there is always a possibility they won’t be met. My only expectation for Royal Assassin was it to be at least as good as the Assassin’s Apprentice. This book didn’t just exceeded my expectations, it also solidified this series as one of my favorites and I have yet to read the conclusion and the following trilogies.We continue with the Fitz’s story following the events from Assassin’s Apprentice; Fitz is recovering from those events in the Mountain Kingdom where he contemplates his future and after having a strong vision of a person he cares about, he decides to go back to Buckkeep and to continue serving King Shrewd and his son, King-in-Waiting, Prince Verity. Upon his return he is immediately entangled in perilous events taking place inside and outside of the court. The main antagonist, Prince Regal, is plotting his way to the throne while the Red-Ship Raiders are continuing to represent a constant threat to the Six Duchies. That is just the beginning of the tale and I’ll stop here because there is no point in revealing the whole story; that is for you to find out and experience yourself. There is an abundance of intricate schemes and plots woven into the story making it a compelling read. Hobb uses a lot of motifs to establish the overall atmosphere and to weave together the thematic complexities of the plot. One motif that prevails and has a great effect on the story and the characters is loyalty. Characters are often torn between what they wish to do and what they need to do and that is a great way to flesh out their emotions and inner thoughts making them more believable. Characterization is the strongest element of Hobb’s writing; relationships between characters are brilliantly done allowing us to truly get to know them. Emotions which manifest from those relationships are setting off the storyline and keep it moving making it a richer experience. That leads me to the relationship and a character which is, for me, a highlight of this novel; a wolf named Nighteyes. Saved by Fitz from a life in cage when he was just a weak cub and giving him food and shelter, teaching him how to hunt so he could one day live on its own. Even though reluctant at first, Fitz forms a very strong and unbreakable bond with Nighteyes. It's wrong to think of Nighteyes as mere pet or a simple companion, he is way more than that, he is a quintessential part of Fitz's life, he gives him strength, he is loyal to the core and he makes him complete. They have a strong and mutually dependent bond. They are a pack.“There is a place where all time is now, and the choices are simple and always your own. Wolves have no kings.”This is a slow burn character driven fantasy with a carefully executed and suspenseful plot which turns in an absolute crescendo in the last quarter of the book and ends in a mind-blowing way which makes me very excited to continue this adventure.Royal Assassin will appeal to readers who enjoy classic fantasy tales but also readers who enjoyed contemporary fantasy novels like The Name of the Wind. So, if you belong in any of those groups, I highly recommend that you give this series a try.