DNF at 40%it's a pretty good book, I suppose. if you like them dipped in dog shit, cows piss and utterly rotten. If i were the publisher and someone had brought this book to me, I'd have advised them to consider getting some help. I don't know what is wrong with Marlon James, but I am pretty sure something is malfunctioning in his brain. Whatever the case, I am really curious to know what was going on in his life when he decided to write this book, and what kind of head space was he in when he thought it would be a great idea to write about child molestation, rape and murder. I mean this dude has crossed all lines. This book  comes with a trigger warning for everything known to men and more.There is Rape on every single page. Homophobia. Incest. Pedophilia. Teleiophillia. Child abuse.Mutilation of bodies, specially of children's. Cannibalism. Violence. Kidnapping.Torture. Foul language. Gritty murders. General disgust arising from superfluous description of genitalia, smell of butt cracks, weird creatures that rape with their huge penises etc. If it were a stand alone book, I might have forced myself to finish it, but it's a fucking trilogy. I can't, I just can't. To be absolutely clear this book is disturbing and disgusting.Now let's move on to the plot and the writing. Plot was interesting. If it weren't filled with disgusting, gory, creepy shit, I would have enjoyed it. However, i can't say the same for the writing and the structure of the book. It felt like the book was being complicated for the sake of being complicated, like there were stories within a story, (inception level shit) and characters that only talked to each other in riddles. Almost nothing was grounded in reality. It's was excruciating and painful to read because there was nothing I could relate to.  Edit: After recieving hate on my initial review, I decided to add this note to clarify myself. I know it's an oxymoron to use fantasy and reality in the same sentence, I am not an idiot to not see that. My point is that almost all fantasy books have some real elements, either in the world building or in the characters, to make readers feel at home. However, this book felt like a course in quantum physics. I couldn't feel anything for anything and I mostly blame the superfluous writing for it. A simpler writing style and plot structure would have made a great difference.PS: My negative opnion is like a grain of salt in the sea of positive reviews so it shouldn't matter what i think about this book. You are allowed to love this book just as I am allowed not to. Take a chill pill and move on. No need to send hateful comments and death threats.Things I liked about this book:1. Plot.So the plot was alot like NoTW and GoT, and it was the main reason I kept pushing myself to read it but the structure and writing was way too complex for me to fully immerse into it.  I think a TV or movie adaptation would be a better way to consume this story.2. African myths.Lets be honest the only reason I picked this book was the fact that it was based around African myths and mythical creatures. I was super excited and went into it with high expectations, which also played a role in intensifying my disappointment for the book. But I really enjoyed the mythical aspect of the book and I really want to learn more about these myths and creatures. 3. Concept. OK so the concept, as explained by the Marlon James himself,  seemed pretty unique and intriguing.  The whole idea of telling the same story from three different perspectives is bloody genius, in my opnion. However, the execution was bad or you can say it wasn't for me.FAQsAm I curious to know the ending?- Yes, I am. Will continue reading?- No, I'll watch the movie instead.Will I recommend this book?- I won't. But if you are into dark, gritty, complex books then you can give it a shot. I recommend you to read a few pages (if possible) before purchasing the book to familiarize yourself with the writing style, 'cos this shit ain't for everyone.