**3.5 STARS**Forever by Maggie Stiefvater is the conclusion to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series. Its always hard to review a finale because there's so much to be said about how everything turned out. Honestly, I feel like I just became a wolf like Grace and Sam and all my human thoughts have abandoned me. I can only think in short thoughts right now so I'm just going to go with it. What I Liked:1. The imagery was top notch as usual. Maggie Stiefvater has a way of describing things that makes them feel so visceral and exciting. 2. Isabel and Cole are life! They are infinitely fascinating characters and I can't wait to read their spin off novel. 3. Sam and Grace being in wolf love is the most adorable thing I ever read. I'm just picturing them touching snouts and its wonderful.4. The open-ended, bittersweet ending really fit the series as a whole. I don't usually like endings like this but in this case, there was a strange sense of hope about the whole thing that I really loved. What I Didn't Like:1. Shelby is just a monster and I hate her. I wish there were more chapters than just one from her perspective. Maybe it would have given me some kind of empathy for her. 2. The pacing felt off. I don't know... at times it felt stagnant and slow and at other times it was everything happening all at once. However, it wasn't as stagnant as Linger so there's that at least. 3. There wasn't nearly enough Isabel and Cole chapters!4. Why are all the parents in Mercy Falls a bunch of buttholes? Occasionally, I sort of liked Isabel's mom but she's not winning a parent of the year award by any means. Overall, I enjoyed the finale to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series. I got what I needed out of it to feel like the story was complete and I was happy with how things turned out. There are some loose ends that were never addressed but they were just the minor practical things like are they selling Beck's house and moving to the lodge or what are they going to do in the future for money and whatnot. Really, I'm more excited that the spin off is a primarily Isabel and Cole story. I can't wait to get into that one.