First, I just want to give a shout-out to Bookstagram and BookTok for really doing me dirty on this one. Y’all got me good. With that said... I did not enjoy this book. Now, don’t get me wrong, for the first half, I was having fun with the story. But past that point, I very quickly realized that this just wasn’t it. I’m going to have to break down my critiques here because, honestly, my thoughts are just all over the place and I need to be organized about this. Profanity, spoilers, and general frustration to follow; you have been warned.Grammar/SyntaxI can’t even pretend to not be thoroughly annoyed about the grammar and sentence structure in this book because it was beyond fucking frustrating. Grammar first. I felt like I couldn’t go ten pages at a time without finding a spelling error, whether it was the spelling itself or tense in which something was written. It genuinely seems like this book wasn’t ever proof-read, and while I tried to work past it at first with minor frustration, I just found it too distracting to not be agitated by it after a certain point.And now the syntax. The sentence structure was just sloppy, I don’t know a nicer way to say it. Everything read in a fragmented manner, and I constantly found myself re-reading passages because they were awkward or difficult to understand due to how they were written.World-buildingFor a book deriving much of its material from the lush atmosphere of Greek mythology, A Touch of Darkness had very weak world-building. Everything about the world was very contained and wanting, but this could also be something that’s expanded upon in the following book for all I know.Characters:I really, really wanted to like Persephone. And I actually did like Persephone at first, but very quickly found her character to be wildly inconsistent and frustrating. One minute, Persephone is a naïve, sheltered young woman, and then the next, she’s a shrewd “badass” with no linear development from one end of the spectrum to the other. I’m not suggesting that a character can’t have both qualities, but it just felt like neither of these qualities were established in Persephone, and her behavior was likely to change on a whim if it benefitted the story.Though slightly more interesting—probably due to the mystery surrounding him—I overall found Hades to be a weak male lead. I’ve heard the books from his POV are better which admittedly has me curious. I wish I could say more about his character but I don’t think Touch even gave me enough of him to even be able to do so. The plot:I really tried to organize my thoughts for this section of the review, but the events in this book are just so messy that I can’t even adequately explain my issues with the plot in a tidy manner. So, anyways, here goes.Let’s just say it like it is: the plot of this book is a smutty romance between Hades and Persephone. That’s it. Being that the contract between Hades and Persephone is what sets the story into motion—and I guess is, therefore, the plot?—I would have liked to have seen Persephone actually work through that conflict rather than just pop into the Underworld every once in a while to water her garden. Alas, we did not get that, and after breaking most of the tension of the story by having Hades and Persephone get together—way too early in the book, in my opinion—St. Clair just seemed to be throwing in any little conflict she could think of to keep the number of pages growing. That’s all to say, this book didn’t need to be nearly as long as it was and the author was honestly just dragging it out by adding “conflicts”. I say “conflicts” in parentheses because said conflicts didn’t even present genuine problems to the story. Two examples of this:The “Fifty Shades Freed” style subplot where Adonis attempts to blackmail Persephone into getting him his job at New Athens News back. Firstly, at this point in the story, Adonis threatening to release pictures of Hades and Persephone shouldn’t even be threatening since rumors are already rampant that Hades and Persephone are together in some regard. In addition, Hades had announced that Persephone was the inspiration behind the Halycon Project chapters earlier. It’s out there, people know, or at least assume, that Hades and Persephone are together. However, Persephone remarks that the photos getting out and confirming the relationship would be damaging for two reasons: Demeter finding out and attaching a label to a relationship seemingly built from a contract in which Persephone feels she is a prisoner. The latter reason is more personal than anything, and is just irrelevant, so I’m not even going to dive into that for obvious reasons. The issue of Demeter finding out, however, I will dwell on because that just doesn’t make sense. Yes, the photos would confirm Hades and Persephone are together, but, honestly, does Demeter need confirmation to imprison her daughter? No, she doesn’t, because we’ve already been how irrationally controlling she is. Besides, Demeter was present at the gala at which Hades announced Persephone inspired him to start the Halycon Project, so she has to know they’re linked, which should be enough to set her off. What really irritated me about this subplot, though, was that Persephone decides to not just go to Hades right away. It’s stated a few pages or so afterwards that “she didn’t want the God of the Dead fighting her battles for her”, though “Hades would be the last resort, a card she would pull if she couldn’t find a solution.” Sigh. Look, I’m all for girl power, but this just makes Persephone look stupid. Also, this subplot is dropped until it’s suddenly the day or so before the deadline Adonis gives Persephone.The second example of St. Clair adding unnecessary conflicts is the subplot of Aphrodite’s bet with Hades. I can tell this subplot was added to provide some heartbreaking drama to the story that would cause emotional/physical distance between Hades and Persephone, but the impact just wasn’t there. It’s possible this subplot has more importance in A Game of Fate, but here it felt useless. [Spoilers for “After by Anna Todd] It actually just came across as a re-hash of the bet plot twist in “After” which, to me, had way more of an impact. I think maybe if St. Clair had saved this reveal for the very end of the book, rather than forty-ish pages from the end, it would’ve had it’s intended impact? I don’t know.The sex:Yes, I really am dedicating a whole section of this review to the sex in this book because… reasons.I want to start this off by saying I’m not usually a critical reader of smut. In fact, I can’t really think of many instances where I’ve thought much of how sex is being written in a book past some placement issues in books like A Court of Wings and Ruin and A Kingdom of Flesh and Fire.However, in A Touch of Darkness, pretty much every sex scene felt weirdly rushed in both the sense of not taking up a lot of page-time, but also in descriptions. I get not everyone’s cup of tea is having super descriptive and drawn-out sex in books, and I can’t say I’m a fan of that either, but it nonetheless seemed like an odd writing choice to make in a book hinged more so on the romance and smut than on actual plot. I just feel like since this is first and foremost a steamy romance read, then why not commit to going all out on the sex scenes? The romance:Perhaps the biggest let down for me with this book is that I really never reached a point where I actively cared about Hades and Persephone getting together. I don’t really feel like I got to see them interact enough on a personal level for the attraction to be there, and there was even a point in the last fourth of the book where Persephone remarks on spending several weeks with Hades in which he plays with children and builds them a playground and that during this time she connects with him: "He’d started seeking her out while she was in the Underworld, asking her to go for walks or play a game of her choosing. She’d begun making requests of him, too; he’d played with the children in the Underworld, added a new play area for them, and hosted a few dinners for the souls and his staff.It was during these moments that her connection to him grew, and she found she felt far more passion for him than she ever had before."Rather than having been told this, I would’ve like to have seen this development in Hades and Persephone’s relationship because it just seems like it could’ve really added some depth to their attraction for each other.Miscellaneous thoughts:Persephone’s internship at New Athens News was just so silly to me. St. Clair could have just made Persephone a blogger or freelance writer and it honestly would have made way more sense. Hecate explaining to Persephone that she bought life to the Underworld and within Hades was just…odd. Even when Persephone first visited Asphodel, the residents of the Underworld seemed to have a nice little life there, complete with markets and celebrations, so saying the Underworld felt bleak without Persephone didn’t make much sense to me.I started delving into Lore Olympus midway through completing this book because I wanted more Hades and Persephone content in my life. Honestly, no regrets because I’m loving Lore, but I did want to make note that I noticed several story similarities between Lore Olympus and A Touch of Darkness, such as the roommate relationship between Persephone and Artemis/Lexa, the assistant position of Minthe, and Hermes and Persephone being relatively buddy-buddy to name a few. I only remark on these because, to my knowledge, these are dynamics and elements unique to Lore Olympus and are not derived from actual Greek mythology. I could be totally wrong on that, but it’s just an observation.All in all, I honestly did have fun reading a good amount of this book, but in the end I just found the issues I had with the storytelling to be too great to even know if I’ll continue with the series.