Hunted is the BEST Beauty and the Beast retelling I have EVER read! It's magical, dark and so murdery.I know I am late to the party on this one, like really, really late, but I can't help but gush.Why did I wait so long to pick this up? I am horrible at life, I guess. That must be the answer. There literally cannot be another reason.I listened to the audiobook of Hunted, which I borrowed from my local library. After completing, I know I will be buying a hard copy because I absolutely plan to read this again.The most impactful aspect for me was hands-down the atmosphere. It was so well done. Dark, gothic and dangerous. I felt cold, alone and HUNTED. Set amidst a harsh Russian landscape, this felt like a nice blend of the classic Beauty and the Beast tale and Peter and the Wolf. I used to have the record version of the Peter and the Wolf symphony. As a child I listened to it all the time. This book was so nostalgic for me, bringing back strong memories of listening to that. It is such a feeling.I loved the representation of Belle's character here. That was another really strong aspect for me; she was independent, strong, willful and brave. She was not a damsel in distress. Nope, not our girl. She was a badass, who though scared, did whatever she had to do for vengeance and that's the kind of heroine I live for!Then, of course, we have the Beast. We get his perspective in small parts throughout the book and I found them to be so interesting. He is way darker, and more primal, than the Beast of the Disney version, but no less compelling. Along with him, of course, comes the castle fallen into ruin, the hostage situation, the secret library, the Stockholm Syndrome love trope and it was just so good. I ate it right up. I suppose for some this book may seem slow, it isn't nonstop action, but for me the flow was absolutely perfect. The pace helped to set up the atmosphere, which contributed to the overall feeling and for me, it was flawless.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who loves retellings, particularly if you are into dark, gothic or stabby things. Do you prefer more stabby to lovie? If so, this could be the book for you!