*Full Review UpdateGuys I'm so sad. I didn't love it. Don't get me wrong, I totally see why others did, and I'm in the minority for this one.I'm not going to type a summary on this one because well, it's a Beauty and the Beast retelling. Some parts were close to the original, and other parts deviated quite a bit. In my opinion, it was the wrong parts. Here's the thing... I'm super biased. I grew up with Beauty and the Beast and I just hold it in such a high regard so it's hard for me to love retellings unless they are as emotionally connected as the first.The story starts off SOOOO slow. It's literally everyone doing normal actions for a good chunk of it. One thing I did love right off the bat was Beauty's connection to her family. She adores her father and sisters and there is such mutual love and acceptance. However, very little happens as the story progresses. If I'm remembering correctly, the B&tB storyline doesn't even start until like 30-35%? But okay, I'm fine with slower start if they are imperative for character development, but eek it was boring.Anyway, once the main storyline did start, I just... didn't feel it. I felt like there was no chemistry between Beauty and the Beast. It supposedly took place over months and there was hardly any conversations or interaction between them. I guess I just wanted more? However, I DID love the scene where she sneaks into his room to try and kill him. So there's that. It did finally make me feel something for the beast. But really... that was it. Whatever, I could have held out and still been quite happy with the book just based on the pretty writing and the folklore aspects if the end had followed through. But whaaat? What even happened? Okay so Beauty went back to her family and literally stayed there for months while she knew she needed to save the beast. But she's all like "Oh hey I'll leave tomorrow it's fine." That literally happened about 10 times and next thing you know, it's months later. Please. Are you serious right now. And then the actual end where she goes to find the Beast... what even happened? I don't even know. BUT the one thing I did love was how the story with her sisters wrapped up. So there's that.Soooo all in all I was pretty disappointed, but there were some good points that I kinda brushed over. Like I said, the writing was lovely, the forest description was really cool, and the folklore aspect was what had me in such high hopes for the ending. Also, the whole captor vs captive thing can be so tricky to navigate but the author handled it really well - I saw no sketchy issues there.Anyway, all in all, it wasn't really for me, but don't let this deter you. Try it out for yourself! My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy