Tale as old as time... Except.Yeah, this is not that Beauty and the Beast.This Beauty is a bit less sing-y and a bit more...stabby. Which is a pretty nice change of pace, to be honest! Plus, this time around, it isn't the villagers who are out to kill the Beast, it's Beauty, herself. She's a hunter. A badass hunter. And because {insert spoilery reasons here} she's on a mission to take a chunk out of his supernatural hide. Of course, killing him means she's gotta stay on as his Guest prisoner while she looks for the chink in his armor that will allow her to take her revenge.Then, after a cute montage, they fall in love, right!? Uhhhhhh. No. The romance is so slow to build that even the characters are clueless until the very end. And even then what brings them together is more of a mutual understanding of each other. A recognition of someone with the same wants and needs - with the same sort of big gaping hole in their soul.You know, kinda like real life.So what happens when the last petal falls? Oh. Well, there's not any enchanted fucking rose in this one. Soooo. Yeah.But Beauty sure does take her sweet ass time getting back to the castle to try to break the spell. In fact, she takes so much time that {spoilery shit happens}!Oh my god! Do they ever get to do that fancy twirly dance in the ballroom?!Ok, this was a lovely romance, but the goal of this tale isn't that your life will be complete when you find your prince (or princess). The moral of the story is this:There's nothing magical over the horizon that is going to make you happy. There's no person that can complete you, no task that once you finish will give you perfect satisfaction, and no point in your life where you can breathe that sigh of relief and live happily ever after. Life just...is. Until it isn't.Try to enjoy the times that aren't horrible (because there will be horrible times), and stop waiting on {insert that thing you think will make you happy here} to happen before you let yourself be satisfied.Bone-deep happiness is more of a choice than most people realize, and if you're able to choose it you'll be far better off than most.