3 May 2023In preparation for reading Painted Devils, I decided to reread this work. What stood out to me on this reread is just how excellent the secondary characters really are. Ragne is the perfect amount of comedic relief and fierce friend, and she stole the show for me this time. I still love a morally grey protagonist, especially when there's some excellent character development/growth that comes along with it. Something else that stood out to me was that I thought the protagonist was older than she was. She's 17 in the book, but to me she came across as early- to mid-twenties. This isn't a huge discrepancy, and I'd rather have my protagonists act older than younger, so it didn't really detract from my enjoyment. I enjoyed this read just as much the second time, and can't wait to see what the next book holds!Original ReviewVanja is a thief, not by choice but by necessity. And her greatest theft so far? Stealing someone else's position and life. But now she finds herself trapped in an engagement to a dangerous man and trapped in debt to her godmothers, Death and Fortune. She continues stealing from the rich, hoping to accrue enough money to flee her godmothers. But when she is cursed by someone she crosses, she finds herself with two weeks to save her life.First, the cover to this book is absolutely gorgeous. I knew nothing about the book, but once I saw the cover, I decided I needed to read it. The story was also interesting and well written. The worldbuilding was fascinating - I loved the inclusion of the palace Kobald, the lesser gods and their children, and the monsters.The characters were varied in their motives, personalities, and quirks. Ragne's unusual approaches from not being around humans, Vanja's humor, and even Death's stolidness. I appreciated that relationship/gender diversity was woven into the story in a way that didn't feel like it was just checking a box. Vanja was a morally-grey protagonist, which made for a fun and exciting read.The author addressed some heavy issues in this work but did so in a way that was not ham-fisted or gruesome. Sexual abuse and physical assault were used as plot points, but they weren't the whole plot. Similarly, she examined characters' motivations for doing "bad" things in a way that made them three-dimensional. I did feel like the book slowed down a bit in the latter half, as the characters were trying to piece together clues and evidence. But other than that, there wasn't anything I disliked about the work. I recommend this work to people who like fantasy, heists, and/or enemies-to-lovers.