1 million/5 stars, this was ferocious and tender in equal measuresI was looking forward to this book from the moment it was announced, as I loved Margaret Owen's other book series The Merciful Crow. Her use of darker themes to paint a big picture and message was astounding in this book just like the others. There was not a moment I wanted to put this book down, and I always wanted to pay the utmost attention to it so that I could gather all the details. This book is also a retelling of 'The Goose Girl' which I have never fully read but know of. I think this book does it incredible justice while also building off into something entirely itself. This story follows Vanja, the not-so-loyal maid a year after she stole her princesses' life to live it as her own. She is the adopted daughter of Death and Fortune and when her godmothers demanded a price for their care she decided to take her own life back while taking Gisele's for herself. Now Vanja leads a life as a lucrative jewel thief and princess, charming nobles while stealing their riches. Then one heist away from her final freedom, she crosses the one god and ends up with a curse, an untimely end of being turned into jewels for her greed. She has two weeks to figure out if she can break her curse, on top of dealing with a half-god, Gisele's sinister fiance, and an overeager junior detective on her tail. The pacing of this book was fantastic, it never missed a beat and constantly threw new plot twists around the story. It could have been very easy for this book to get tangled in on itself, but Owen had wonderful control of each and every piece. Every twist and turn came at just the right time, and her discussion of important themes once again shines through. In this book through the plot and characters, she confronts what the reader would see as traditional "good and evil" and turns traditional lessons of morality into something far greater. Not even counting the original plot there is so much that goes on in this story regarding the characters' struggles and past. There were several 'tales' sprinkled throughout the novel that gave important insight into Vanja and Gisele's past, as well as set up how they viewed the world. Most of them are equivalent to gut punches, and truly show off why each character is the way they are. I think this was a delightful way to get some background on these complicated characters and create worldbuilding without dense info dumps. Being set in a form of Germany was really fun, I don't often read books that are set in this area. There are a lot of fantasy books based around Europe, but usually England, and not so much Germany so this was a new and fun experience. It was still a pretty typical fantasy setting but I could honestly never get bored of that, there's something so comforting about a castle and a village for the characters to run through. I really liked the pieces of magic entwined with the story, as well as the gods. It was really unique, there were low gods that answered to humans and if something happened these specific people (won't say as spoilers) are able to call them to judge a person. They can also give curses to humans, but I couldn't choose a favorite they were all so fun. The magic was really unique and I'm not quite sure I understand it now, but I'm not disappointed, it leaves a little mystery for the second book. Vanja was the epitome of a morally-gray unlikeable main character, but I fell in love with her right from the start. I have a soft spot for characters like that anyways, but Vanja was built around such excruciating circumstances that I couldn't help but have sympathy for her. Based on everything that happened in her past I totally understand why she did the things she did and why she felt so lost. I won't give too many details for fear of spoilers, but she was my favorite character of this entire book. All her sarcastic comments, tricks up her sleeve, heist plots, and moments of weakness were brilliantly written by Owen and I'm so happy to see another complicated main character from her. Gisele was the character I had the most presumptions about, but she ended up being very well done. I think as we are seeing it from Vanja's point of view, it's easy to see Gisele as simply a villain. She didn't do everything right in her past, but the abuse that followed Vanja around also tiptoed behind Gisele. She experienced various types of abuse and mistreatment from people in her life growing up, and so she didn't know what to do to help Vanja. In the present tense of the story, Gisele is very complicated. Her story is very much a spoiler, but just know that in the end I really ended up appreciating her and what she ended up doing. She has a kind heart and I'm glad she was able to use it. Ragne was just so much fun! She was chaotic all the time, but such a good friend as well. She's the daughter of a low goddess who can shapeshift into various animals, who are always fully black. She was extremely fun to have in the main cast as she served as a sarcastic comic relief, while also being naive about some things. Those two put together made her enter into some really fun conversations with the main characters. I couldn't get enough of her and how much fun she was, and how resourceful she really was. Emeric was the only main character that I felt the reader should've gained a bit more from, but that could totally be my personal preference. He was the only male main character which made him stick out a bit from the others I think, but it also gave him charm. He's perfect, which are types of magical detectives, and he's in the story to investigate various things. His intelligence is something that adds to the main cast's skills, and I was really happy that he grew out of his shell as more time went on. He's interesting, and I almost know for certain we will see more of him in the second book. I'm very excited to continue to see him evolve. The cast of this book, especially those above, was so much fun for me as I love large ensemble casts. Especially those reluctant to work with one another, but forced to anyways because of a situation. Each of them brought something unique to the table for their heists and plans, and it was so fun to see them work it out. The angst that was threaded through their group was rightfully placed and exposed just enough to give the reader an understanding of their dynamic. The history of characters played a huge role in the chemistry as well, and seeing every moment be important was something I really appreciated. As well the LGBTQ rep between two of the characters was done really nicely, it wasn't a giant plot point but inserted in a nice way anyways. Overall, one of my most anticipated books all year, and rightfully so. Everything about this book was so perfect from the dark magic, the morally gray characters, and the wonderfully mysterious setting. I highly recommend this to anyone and everyone, the more people I can talk about this with the merrier. [TW: poisoning, child abuse, child neglect, abusive environments and relationships, PTSD, attempted assault (off page), blood, injury, sexual harassment, manipulation, animal death]