I finished two YA fantasy books back-to-back, and they were both excellent. This never happens. I no longer read very much YA because I ran out of patience ten years ago for hormone-driven angst, love triangles, Chosen-one nonsense, and tough girls who go all spineless once they meet a cute guy. Little Thieves (and Vespertine, my other YA read) is such a breath of fresh air. Well. If you like ruthless, twisty, and murder-y with some gods thrown in.Vanja - goddaughter of Fortune and Death, former servant, and current princess - is on the brink of pulling off her final heist. With a magical string of pearls, she's stolen her mistress's face and life and future husband. It's not enough: Vanja uses the pearls to lead a double life as a thief to steal enough to win what she really wants: her freedom. And then she steals a ring that brings with it some unwelcome divine attention, and the long and short of it is that clever Vanja is now cursed...to slowly turn into gemstones over the course of the next month. She can mend her wicked ways, or she can die by ruby. "Wait." I strip off my glove and run my bare fingers over whatever she's put on my cheek. It's too rough to be a pearl. "Is this real?"Eiswald tries again. "To take what it -""Is this a real ruby?" I whip out my boot knife and check my dim reflection in the blade. Sure enough, a fat, impeccable, teardrop-shaped ruby sits below my right eye."Scheit," I breathe, and immediately prod at the stone with the tip of my knife. "I could buy five horses with this."Let's just say that the encounter with the divine does not go the way either expects. But even though the reality doesn't hit Vanja right away, her luck has clearly run out: her stolen but definitely unwanted fiance is suddenly demanding to marry right away, a smarter-than-he-looks junior prefect is on the trail of the mysterious thief robbing the local nobility blind, and the real princess - the main person Vanja has to make amends to - is not in a forgiving mood after a year as a commoner.I didn't think it would be possible to make the conniving servant girl of the Brothers Grimm story "The Goose Girl" into an interesting protagonist, but Margaret Owens pulls off her retelling (in the loosest sense) with aplomb. Vanja starts as a glib, unsympathetic narrator whose first and only priority is survival at everyone else's expense ("I realize I have made a truly unfortunate mistake. Is it that I just dropped another human being into an icy river in manacles and thus (probably) to his death? Hardly. I think we can all agree the encyclopedic prick had it coming"), but the backstory that unfolds bit by bit tells a different story, one of a girl so badly used by everyone she ever trusted that she finally had enough. This is a knife-edged and clever story of redemption, of imperfect and scarred relationships with parents, friends, and lovers, of second chances. Also demon horses, divine court cases, and some exceedingly well-timed trickery. The humor is of the gallows variety, even when the stakes are high - and there's something rotten enough in Castle Reigenbach that Vanja and the friends she (reluctantly! inadvertently!) acquires are all in imminent danger. There might be slightly too much emotional waffling near the end for my taste, but I might be even more allergic to emotion than Vanja. Little Thieves is my favorite Goose Girl so far, and I squealed a little (silently, on the inside) when I saw that a sequel was forthcoming.