Once upon a time, there was a girl as cunning as the fox in winter, as hungry as the wolf at first frost, and cold as the icy wind that kept them at each other's throats.


You should read this book if you like the sound of:
⤅ An unrepentantly wicked, deeply likeable, abrasive antiheroine who slowly softens over the course of the story⤅ A buttoned-up, starchy, stuffy hero who basically gets turned inside out by the heroine during their cat-and-mouse relationship⤅ Fairy-tale retellings from the POV of the villain (a little loose of a retelling maybe, but recognisable elements are there)⤅ Truly beautiful prose that's lyrical without being purple ⤅ An intriguing Germanic fantasy world where queer and nonbinary characters are normal

Little Thieves follows 16-year-old Vanja Schmidt, who's been the goddaughter of the Low Gods Death and Fortune ever since her mother abandoned her to their care when she was four years old. Though she always considered herself a full daughter, she was horrified to discover four years ago that they think of her more as a potential servant... and she only has one week left until she must choose which of them she wants to serve for the rest of her life. The only way she can escape is if she raises 1000 gilden, which will let her flee to a new life in a foreign country.Which is why she has a cunning and highly complex plan. Since she was a child, she's been a servant in the household of the royal von Falbirg family, and a playmate to their daughter Princess Gisele. A terrible event shattered their faith in each other, and now Gisele is a poor beggar somewhere in the streets, while Vanja has taken her place with the help of an enchanted pearl necklace that lets her look like Gisele. For the last year, she's been using her newly elevated position to moonlight as the Pfennigeist, a ghost who steals from all the aristocrats. 

The little thief steals gold, but the great one steals kingdoms; and only one goes to the gallows...

But her time is running out in more way than one. As well as Death and Fortune, she also now has 18-year-old Junior Prefect Emeric Conrad on her heels. Even though he looks like just a bumbling oaf, he's the Prefect in charge of investigating the Pfennigeist,, so she has to watch her step. Her fiancé (or, rather, Gisele's fiancé) Margrave Adalbrecht von Regenbach is also on his way back from the border wars, and he's a horrible person she really needs to steer clear of. But the worst deadline of all is the curse she gets placed on her for stealing from the god of the forest. Infuriated at her theft, the god has decreed that Vanja will slowly turn into a statue made of precious gems, unless she can undo all the wrongs she's done. Ragne, the god's feral shapeshifter daughter, is tasked with watching over Vanja for what looks to be the last week of her life. In order to juggle all these competing deadlines and enemies, Vanja is going to have to work very, very hard...Okay, I listed some of my favourite things about this book up at the top already, so I won't go too much further into that. But 
I will admit that I did have to forgive a couple of things in order to let this book have a 5-star rating.
The ending for one, feels weaker than the rest of the novel. Slightly rushed, and nowhere near as fleshed out as it could've been. Also... I'm more than ready to see Margaret Owen write more nuanced villains. I know she can write great antiheroines, so I was really surprised to see how one-dimensional the villain is. He's not just a murderer, he's a rapist, cheater, patricide, militia-leader... really?Also, on a final note, I really would have liked to see this as an adult novel. Spoiler tag, but there's no spoiler in it, just me rambling a few thoughts about Vanja and Emeric.So Vanja loves running, but she just wants to be caught. Emeric says he's always willing to catch her. This is like my favourite style of interaction between a hero and heroine EVER. It would have been great to see their criminal/law-enforcement dynamic play out in the bedroom, because I can totally see Vanja needing to be tied down and Emeric being more than happy to oblige. And then she'd probably try to turn the tables on him, soooo yes basically I'm here for it.
OVERALL
I'm so grateful that the amount which I enjoyed The Merciful Crow wasn't a fluke.