FULL REVIEW UP!Laws yes, I finished this huge ass book!I’ve been wanting to read The Stand for years. I put it off because of the sheer size of the book. I finally kicked my butt in gear and read this post-apocalyptic tale of good vs evil.I love post-apocalyptic/dystopian plots and I knew I needed to read this. I'm so glad I did!I went into this book not knowing much about the plot or characters. I did not watch the TV mini-series of The Stand which was produced back in 1994. I'm glad that I didn’t watch it or know what type of plot and characters that Stephen King was going to introduce me too!! I think it's better that way.The Stand starts off with a deadly plague that kills most of the world’s population. I enjoyed reading about the trials and tribulations of the survivors trying to navigate in this new world. I loved this part of the book!And because of the death and destruction that occurs, Randall Flagg, the Dark Man comes back for the remaining survivors. Dun dun dun!I ended up reading the unabridged version of this dystopian tale. I do think that some of this “extra” of the unabridged version could have been cut out. I still loved the overall story though and have to give this book 5 stars because of the amount of world building and characterization that King ends up writing about.One thing that I had issue with on the unabridged version was the Trashcan Man chapters. It slowed down the pace for me and made me miss the other characters.Now that I’ve finished the book though, I understand why King wrote those chapters and wanted them in the book.I absolutely loved the ending of this book! I’ve read some reviews that had problems with it, but it worked for me. I’m not saying more due to spoilers.Last of all, some of the characters in this book will be with me for years. That’s the skill and brilliance of King when he writes a character driven plot.Nick Andros, Tom Cullen and Glenn Bateman will always be my favorites.And I will always hate Harold Lauder with a raging passion. What a weasel! Speaking of weasels…And now thanks to King, I want an Irish Setter like Kojak. Fetch Kojak, fetch!