↠ 5 starsIt's 1927, and Shanghai stands divided by blood. Allied to the Scarlet Gang through family ties, Juliette Cai gambles the safety of those around her to protect those she loves from the inevitable fallout. Having chosen a necessary betrayal over her own heart, Juliette is completely undone, possessed by an impossible need to prevail against the White Flowers and her own family. Roma Montagov believes her cruelty for the supposed murder of his comrade, but Juliette must keep up the game if she ever hopes to keep her cousin from ousting her as the Scarlet Gang's heir. Deep within the city, something far more dangerous lurks primed to strike. It brings with it great evil, a final chip in the marble that could bring Shanghai to its knees. A betrayal may have torn their reunion asunder, but Juliette and Roma will have to shed the hatred binding them together to become something far greater to each other and to the city that they hold dear.The thing about Our Violent Ends is that I didn't want the ends to be violent. I spent most of my time reading this denying that the duology was in fact a Romeo and Juliette retelling and instead choosing to focus solely on vibes. Right from the start, Chloe Gong does not hold back, amping up the action and drawing an exquisite picture of betrayal and intrigue. The complexities arising from the conclusion of the previous book stay strong, give or take some added angst that set my soul ablaze. There's just something about the betrayal trope that drives forth this finale into something dark and tragic. A foreboding atmosphere that seeps into every crevice of the story, threatening to fracture apart growing relationships and the fate of the characters. Much like the previous book in the series, the politics, and complicated alliances play against the emergence of an outside threat, but one far greater than before. Roma and Juliette really excelled here, as they ultimately reach the tipping point for compromise and a search for power amidst the blood feud that has fueled the city for decades. Seeing all of these complex feelings play out, especially after the events that concluded the last book, was simply delightful. Gong has a talent for keeping the emotions of her characters in check until the last second, which drove me completely insane. By the time that the inevitable reconciliation came around, I was utterly ruined by it. Roma and Juliette have this passion mixed with a tenderness that is so rare to read about. I certainly won't be getting over their journey anytime soon. With so many allusions to the original text, I was afraid of how this was going to end, but Chloe Gong crafts a compelling and bittersweet ending that simultaneously tore my heart to pieces and restored my faith in love. In this explosive finale set in the chaos of a city divided, two people find their way back to one another and must fight against the bonds determined to destroy them both.Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing this arc in exchange for an honest reviewTrigger Warnings: blood, violence, gun violence, death, murder