What was love if all it did was kill?THIS HAD ME ON THE EDGE OF MY SEAT AND THE ENDING HAS ME ON THE FLOOR!WHAT A FINALE TO AN AMAZING DUOLOGY, A 50TH BOOK OF THIS YEAR'S CHALLENGE TO REMEMBER FOREVER!YES, I'm not even exaggerating when I say that I'm writing this review from my bedroom floor. SO MANY THOUGHTS and suddenly no words? (and this, as you know, doesn't happen to me often). Let's skip the official part and make this a rant (affectionately)I'M IN SHAMBLES! This is a retelling but the fact that it's a retelling of a story with a well-known ending didn't take away from the story in any possible way. I was STILL so curious to know what will happen, the ending WAS NOT predictable and I'M SO INTERESTED in reading the spin-off series. For me, when I love side characters, that means that I'm reading an AMAZING book. This is one of those cases, I have so much affection for all these side characters. The protagonists were very loveable, but HONESTLY, props to Chloe Gong for devoting so much time and thought to making good side characters. AND THEY GET THE STORY GOING. Once again, I'm 22 and this series is YA, so I guess that I'm not the intended audience, and I've read a TON of fantasy series, so I WAS able to guess the main plot twist early on, but hey, don't let that convince you not to read this, cuz TRUST ME, you're missing out on something great. THE WRITER IS SO YOUNG, I mentioned that a few times last time around, when I was reviewing the first installment, such beautiful writing, complex characters, character development, amazing setting, just beautiful. Like many others, I'm not the biggest fan of the fantasy element in this, it's so subtle that it almost feels not needed, BUT, it makes the story more realistic and the stakes higher! You know, there isn't a chosen-one that can just walk in and save the day with a flick of fingers (I'm seriously so tired of that trope). The lack of „actual“ fantasy and some predictable parts of the plot still couldn't make me give this less than 5 stars, the duology as a whole is so good that I don't want to be cheap with stars. The romance is beautiful, very subtle and youthful, truly makes your heart ache. I'm so sad that I have to say goodbye to these characters. Also, I love how these two installments were so different from one another. The first part was politics, history, racial issues, relationship build-up, the second one is more romance (and some politics). It almost feels like as these characters developed, their interests and things they noticed in the world around them changed and (I don't know if that was intentional) BUT IT WAS SO GOOD. Listen, I'm always the book 1 girlie, iykyk. God, this review is a mess, i might edit it later. (When I stop panicking over this)