I have been putting this review off for much too long.I am disappointed. Deeply, achingly disappointed. Robin Hobb spent decades carefully sculpting an utterly perfect, captivating, compelling, breathtaking narrative featuring living, breathing characters with rich, consistent inner lives in a relationship that read as more real and important than any I have previously encountered in fiction.So why does the ending ring so false?'Ware spoilers.Let's just get this out of the way: no, I am not butthurt because Fitz and Fool didn't end up banging. Sex and romance were never where I envisioned them ending. I LIKE the representation of true love as platonic between them. I feel romance would have added absolutely nothing to their unspeakably gorgeous relationship.What is bothering me is how stiff, unnatural, and forced their actions are throughout this book, as Robin Hobb abandoned her usual character-driven writing to railroad them to her designated endpoint. This applies to Fitz and Fool's interactions, to Fitz's choices throughout the entire final arc, and even to Bee through much of this last book.What is also bothering me is the lack of a narratively appropriate conclusion to the story and character arcs as previously presented.Regarding the first point, in what world does it make sense to finally, climactically resolve the issue of gender and homophobia between Fitz and the Fool--and then immediately go back to those same old fights? What is Hobb's problem, exactly, with allowing the two of them to fall into uninhibited mutual affection and support? The conflicts feel bizzarre at this point. Unnatural. Forced. The same can be said of the series of choices which leads to a worm-riddled Fitz stumbling into the Elderling quarry. An in-depth review of all the ways Hobb has contradicted her own magic system and lampshaded Fitz making un-Fitz-like choices would be painful, so I'll limit myself to one example:-Fitz and Nighteyes openly acknowledge that Fitz has worms.-Fitz and Nighteyes discuss remedies, and decide between them that a copper coin would be simple and effective. This is an obvious, commonsense approach in Fitz's mind, learned as a child.-Fitz kills his tormentors in the Elderling ruins and loots their bodies. Coins are specifically mentioned.-Fitz then doesn't check for a copper coin, or swallow a copper coin, or ever think about remedies again at all?-?????Hobb's Designated Perfect Ending relies on handing Fitz the Idiot Ball so many times it becomes ludicrous. This is not the character-driven writing that made the Realm of the Elderlings my favorite series for so many years. This is, frankly, weak.And what is this ending that is so important that Hobb sacrificed the charm of her characters and the intoxication of her writing to achieve?It is flat. It is tasteless. It is unsatisfying. It gives not even a nod to the themes of choice and destiny which have been central to the Prophet/Catalyst dynamic. It does not satisfy the narrative promises established by Fitz and Fool's relationship. It produces no emotional catharsis. It demonstrates no character development.The ending is empty.In short, Assassin's Fate is unworthy both of Robin Hobb's demonstrated skill and of the glorius construct which is the preceding series. This book ruins the series.My recommendation to future RotE readers is to stop following Fitz and Fool at the end of Fool's Errand. That is as close as RH came to neatly wrapping up their plotline. That is the closest I have experienced to satisfaction regarding these two fine characters, my favorite in all of literature. I hope that by skipping this last botched arc, your experience will not be as disappointing as mine has been.