“To Fitz and the Fool.My best friends for over twenty.Assassin’s fate is the last book in the The Realm of the Elderlings. As much as I’m happy to finish a 16 book series, I’m also sad to to say goodbye to this awesome characters. This book started immediately where the previous book ended but the first 50% of the book was so slow I got bored, the only thing that made me get through the slow first part was the reappearance or crossover of characters from Dragon Wild and Liveship Traders. The second part of the book was fast paced, action packed and fun to read.I love the magic system in this book, the Skill magic went from mind control and telepathy amongst users to healing, shortening of journeys through skill stones and many others. The fight scenes were not much in this but the few that we here were well written. ““Never do that which you can’t undo, until you’ve perceived what you can’t do once you’ve done it.”The world building is awesome, it improved greatly. The writing is something I always love in Hobb’s book, no author writes like her, the writing style draws you in and makes you want to finish the book. This book is written in Bee and Fitz’s POV.  “The problem is not that we forget the past. It is that we recall it too well. ”The characters are awesome, they are what made this series what it is. My favorite character is Bee but for the entire series is Fitz.Fitz has his faults but given what he has gone through in life he actually did well, I love that he finally knows that his family loves him.Bee is such a strong child, I don’t think I can survive what happened to her. I love how strong she is.Beloved is amazing, I love him whatever gender he is, he isn’t just a white prophet to Fitz but he loves him wholeheartedly.I also like Perseverance, Lant, Shine and all the other characters in this series.The plot is quite straightforward, Fitz now knows that Bee is alive so the vengeance is now a rescue mission. Getting to Clerres is not as easy as planned given that Beloved is the only one that knows the way.