4.5DaRn iT! Is this how this ended? All I can think about now is how to grab the next book. I might die of the suspense..... of thinking what happens next? This book certainly surprised me. A kick-ass protagonist? Yes! A story that is breathtaking? well, yes to that too. Magic and Scottish people? Oh, hell yes. And soo much more. I never imagined it to be this good. It was almost perfect.The Falconer is the story of Aileana Kameron, a young aristocratic woman in 1844 Scotland. She lives the idle life of privilege, with the same dreams of marriage and family as any other young woman in her society. That is until she finds her mother brutally murdered at the hands of a faery. In the year following her mother’s death, Aileana has only one goal: to kill the faery that murdered her mother. She spends that year training and killing fae with Kiaran McKay, a faery with a mysterious past and a mission of his own. As she draws closer to her goal, Aileana faces a battle with some of the most monstrous faeries the world has seen. And it is a battle she may not win......Her thirst for revenge wars with her legacy. She is the last hope in saving humanity from extinction by the faery.I very much liked the fantasy element of the book. Fae folk. Not something new... Seelie and Unseelie, Fae-human war etc. Yet I enjoyed it immensely. It became more enticing and compelling with each turn of pages. The writing is very good, the scenes are presented well. Especially I love the way she captured Aileana's burning desire for vengeance. While reading I could feel the anger, the frustration, the helplessness. You can’t help but feel Aileana’s pain or her overwhelming grief. Anyway, the character and their relationship building were quite strong. I liked each of them, fulfilling their parts. (But my personal favorite is Derrick.) Captivating storyline. Thrill. And action! loads of it. Blissfully-content, me. And yes, romance does contribute towards this amazing story, even if it was mostly in the latter part of the book. Less, but satisfying. Also, humor is not lost in this. The banter among the characters. Oh. The. Banter. It was very much entertaining. The only thing that is making me nudging my mind, in a good-bad way, is the ending. Yup. It has to end on a cliffhanger! And not just any cliffhangers, but The Cliffhanger! Shoot me. However, I loved it. It is surely enjoyable and entertaining. Recommended to everyone.