Sometimes the memories we cling hardest to, are the ones that hurt us the most.Before you read this review, I must warn you that it might contain spoilers, or better, things or facts that some people might consider so. Since I don't know you all's take on what's a spoiler and what's not, I'll try to keep it as vague as possible and tag when I have to. The Falconer is my second attempt at reading something about Faes and their magical and intricated world and, not gonna lie, I approached the subject mainly thanks to my dear friend Virginia and her utter obsession over everything faerie-ish. Thank you, Gin, now I'm obsessed too!The Falconer is a compelling story about vengeance, self-knowledge and love, all sprinkled with Scottish humor and slang. Aileana Kameron found out legends were not just stories after she lost her mother by the hand of a beautiful and deadly Baobhan Sìth. Blinded by the will to avenge her, she starts training with Kieran MacKay, who fights his own kind and will teach her everything about Faes and even something about herself. Now...I kind of live for vengeance storylines. I have read a rather long list of books where blood thirst and revenge are the main point of the story, the thing that drives the characters through the pages, and I have to say it, The Falconer -with its exquisite writing and interesting descriptions- just got on top of that list without many compliments. Although it being a bit repetitive at times, I think the writing is incredibly nice, almost never boring (only a tad bit at the start, but that's it) and amazingly colorful, especially if you consider the presence of all those Gaelic terms and phrases, that make everything ten times more authentic than the setting already suggests it is. Another thing that makes this book a worthy read, are the fact that the dialogues are totally on point. The charaters talk and act properly and in tune with the period they live in (I'm looking at you and your various "holy shit"s, Royal Bastards).If I had to be completely picky (and you can bet your sweet bippies I'm not going to refrain myself), I found the steampunk factor to be a bit weak in the first pages, but it definitely got better as the chapters went on. Amazing action scenes, too. I literally could feel the adrenaline rush whenever my fierce red-haired heroine had to fight against one of those flipping monsters. Also, can we talk about those footnotes? I loved every bit of Aileana Kameron's Notes and Observations of the Fae -With some comments from Kiaran MacKay. (those were my favorites lol)I learned so much reading them, and I had fun, as well. In short, this book is almost perfect on paper. The strongest point of the entire novel, though, remain the characters, Aileana first and foremost.I apparently have developed a thing for badass red-haired swordswomen, lately. Nothing new if you ask my closest friends, but let me tell you why this time is different. Aileana (sorry, I still hate this name because it's too similar to Celeana) is THE BEST. An actual badass with her eyes focused on the prize and no time for anything frilly and distracting. She's so passionate, smart, strong-willed, stubborn and sarcastic (nice alliteration, self). Her huge heart and all the scars -both physical and emotive- she's endured make her nothing but one of the best main character I've read of in a very long time. I usually don't like books in first-person pov, but I liked that The Falconer was narrated through Aileana's words, because it gave me an amazing insight of her own thoughts and motivations. I love her relationship with Catherine (sweet and loyal Catherine), Derrick (a pixie who gets drunk on honey and stitches clothes? Heck, yes, I want to adopt one) and Gavin (adorable and probably way too kind for his own good). And Kiaran...well, let's say I apparently have developed a thing for devilishly handsome fae daddies men, too. He's such a deep and complex character. I laughed so much whenever he, Derrick and Gavin were in the same room, bickering and teasing each other. So much sass and so. much. poison. I expect them to become best buddies by book 3 or else I might be very disappointed. Plus *swoons* his interactions with Aileana, or Kam as he likes to call her. Holy Moly. They made my blood boil in my veins. In a very positive way, that'd be clear, but still. Gosh, our guy might be over 2000 years old but he definitely knows what's up. Also, excuse me while I put my shipping goggles on, but I shipped the heck out of those two! Their undeniable chemistry goes way beyond the classic apprentice-teacher dynamics and it's sooooo amazing to see them growing over their differences and into mutual trust and affection. And those quotes, oh my little pony!"Aoram dhuit. I will worship thee."Let me just...check my pulse real quick...Nope, it's gone. I'm dead. As dead as I could be after that amount of hotness. Also, can I just spend a moment to praise the fact that, here here, there is no love triangle? Thank God and baby Jesus and all the angels and Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny!For a moment, after Aileana's father announced her and Gavin were going to get married and they started to get friendly with each other, I rolled my eyes in frustration so hard I even saw my brain, but I was pleasantly surprised to see that it never happened. Their friendship is marvellous to be reduced to a love triangle, and Gavin and Aileana are way too great charries to be treated like that. Ah! In your face, you stupid trope!I was a bit disappointed about the ending, not because I didn't like what I read, but because it felt a bit rushed. It's nothing compared to the heart attack it gave me, though, so I won't consider it as a flaw. I'm probably being childish and on the verge of throwing a tantrum, here. What can I say? I didn't want the book to end. It was just that good. It left me on the edge of my seat, and I'm not even exaggerating. The Falconer is one of those stories that are easily unforgettable. Magnetic, entertaining and absolutely addictive. If I don't read The Vanishing Throne soon I'm afraid I'll start to get withdrawals. *squeals enthusiastically**falls off chair*Who am I kidding, I'm already missing The Falconer gang! ACTUAL RATINGS 4,5/5(rounded up to 5 because the characters were my absolute favorite!)