PHEW.What a relief, to return to disliking Holly Black books.For years, I was on a 100% lack of enjoyment streak. And then...suddenly...after I read The Wicked King mostly by mistake (can we just shout out the fact that that title reads like the title of the first book run through a thesaurus)...I caught myself in a dilemma.I actually had fun while reading that one.But not to worry. Clearly we’re back to our regularly scheduled programming. This was very meh for me.I had a lot of fun with the second one, even though I hated most things about it.This was less fun. This was more “let’s tie up the loose ends of this mess we’ve created. We have this gross disgusting hateful relationship filled with suffering and toxicity that we have to make into a romance by force for some reason. Everyone hates each other and we have to stop that. Also we have to figure out some kind of event or plot or action, which maybe we’ll do in the second half but let’s not worry about it right now.”Moments of this reminded me of...and this is the worst possible thing I can say about any book...A Court of Wings and Ruin. You know. A lot of people standing around talking to each other when war was supposed to happen. A shoved-together romance that a lot of people like for some reason. The only cool stuff lightly stolen from fairytales.Overall, a massive bummer.But seriously WHY do Holly Black books ALWAYS have plots that start like two thirds in?? It’s inexcusable. They’re YA fantasy books and they’re like 12 pages long. What the hell.And let’s not forget that I truly hate these characters. Jude is the kind of 2012-era Badass But No Other Personality female protagonist I thought we left behind with the dystopian subgenre and love triangles. But here she is.Cardan is the trope I know I’ll never escape. The Asshole With Frowny-Face Past. And I may have resigned myself to never getting rid of these bozos, but that doesn’t mean I have to be happy about it.Everyone else matters not at all, or matters for like 2 pages max. But somehow...I’m still kinda sad this series is over. It does include the only Holly Black book I’ve halfway enjoyed.Enough emotion.Bottom line: I did not like this book. Relatedly, the universe has righted itself.-----------tbr reviewin the span of a week, i went from expecting to never read a Holly Black book again to being unable to wait to read this.WHAT IS HAPPENING TO ME