While I walked the path of daggers and poison, she walked the no less fraught path of desire.everyone else: excitedly getting started on the Wicked Kingme staring at Holly Black’s window and quoting the SNL Papyrus skit: I know what you did. I KNOW WHAT YOU DIIIIIIDOkay so YES this finale was great, though definitely not as good as the first two. I forgot how much this world and Jude—I originally said these characters but like. it’s mostly Jude—lived in my mind rent free. When Taryn returns to the human world after an incident with Locke, Jude is thrown back into the world of faerie. Caught in politics between Cardan’s Seelie Court and the Unseelie Court of Teeth, she must attempt to hold herself and Taryn together against a person she never wished to see again. This is a third book so it’s a bit awkward to describe every significant detail that resonated with me. If you came here for a roundup of my thoughts on character, plot, etc, next section. And if you have read the first two books, and just came here to remind yourself what the hell happened last book, go with the last section. Aspects I EnjoyedOkay there was actually a lot I enjoyed about this novel. →JudeIf I continue the way I am, will I become like Madoc? Or will I break?Jude is… okay, I cannot even explain how interesting Jude is as a lead. Jude is so cold and so ruthless in comparison to a lot of YA heroines I have seen in this era of literature. Her emotions come through in small moments, which makes it all the more satisfying to see her grow. Her power plays never stop being neat to me. I love this ambitious bitch so much. →CardanThere is no banquet too abundant for a starving man.Okay, just to be totally real, I disliked this character a lot during the first book. But I think I like this character’s arc. Cardan started off as such a frustrating character, but I enjoyed the slow growth of his character arc. And I strangely enough enjoy this romance. When he tells Jude, “Unlike Locke, I never thought love was a game. You may accuse me of much but not that” the Implications..... I enjoyed Jude’s speech about how she and Cardan get each other because they both feel shame about heir tragic backstories and have covered it up by not having feelings.I often really struggle with this trope—the asshole love interest thing was very much not conceptualized with gay women in mind—but I think what I enjoy about this dynamic is that Jude is the one in control. In a lot of ways, The Cruel Prince is a story about power, and Cardan, who initially and by appearance has most of the power, is often rendered powerless by the narrative. That is what I find so interesting and compelling about this romance. →Taryn“It really is a magical word: no. You say whatever bullshit you want, and I just say no.”Taryn’s character development in this novel made her… dare I say it? Interesting. Much as I know she’s disliked quite a bit, and I understand why on a personal level, Holly Black has built this character into a complex and dynamic one. Taryn has a legitimately satisfying arc that allows her to grow and change without being either easily forgiven or easily dismissed. Her actions in this book are, dare I say it, fascinating. →Vivi“It’s ridiculous the way everyone acts like killing a king is going to make someone better at being one. Imagine if, in the mortal world, a lawyer passed the bar by killing another lawyer.”Vivi, Jude’s oldest sister, felt really well-fleshed out during this book. Her arc with Heather gets resolved in an interesting way and I frankly just felt good about this. →The VibesOOH okay there were a few aspects of this book I wanted to draw attention to. First of all, Black is incredibly good at writing scenes that are just a little bit off. Not horror, exactly, but something close to it. The visceral horror of the dream scene was especially memorable here; a certain scene with Taryn also lives in my head a bit. A few scenes, including It’s revealed the Ghost betrayed her because he gave Locke his true name, which is a neat little twist. I adored Cardan and The Roach saving Jude, and this entire scene was really dynamic.Aspects I DislikedHm... okay. I wanted more from Jude in this book. I thought her decisions were at times mediocre to bad, which is frustrating, because one of her defining character traits is that she's a great schemer. I liked that a lot of the areas where she fails were challenging distinct character traits, but I wanted a bit more of her succeeding as well. The much much bigger issue is that this book feels like it lacks the meat of books one and two. I honestly suspect that Queen of Nothing was just too short to truly convey the level of intrigue and drama that I've been enjoying for the rest of the series. So... I missed that. I guess I also felt most of the emotional directions of this book were a bit more predictable, which isn't a bad thing in terms of wider series plot, but definitely impacted my personal enjoyment of this one. Maybe I should simply admit that I am doomed to never enjoy series finales nearly as much as the rest of the series. (No, truly. I always like the middle book best in trilogies, and I don't agree that middle book syndrome exists, and this is a hill I will die on.) Overall though, please do not be fooled. This was good. I enjoyed reading this. Spoilery SummariesIn The Cruel Prince:Jude joins Dain’s Court of Shadows spy ring. She also brutally murders Valerian, despite the danger to him from Dain. The book ends with the court going up in flames as Balekin interrupts Dain’s coronation to wrest power for himself, helped by Madoc, who kills Dain. When his siblings refuse to assist in his coronation, Balekin needs to find Cardan. It is revealed that 1. Locke was only toying with her to prove that Taryn really loved him, and 2. Oak is not Oriana’s child, but Liriope’s—the woman Dain killed over a prophecy their child would take the throne. Jude gets to Cardan first, forcing him to swear himself to a year and a day of service to her. Jude then uses her self-poisoning to Princess-Bride Madoc into unconsciousness, which was extremely sexy of her. And then she tells Cardan she’s going to crown Oak, before commanding him to kneel and be crowned. So… in essence she games everyone into accidentally making her the most powerful person in their world for a year. I forgot how good The Cruel Prince is.In the Wicked King:Jude has Cardan ensorcelled for a year and a day, and things are going… fine, but so delicate. Cardan tries his best to wield what little power he has. Jude kills Balekin, Cardan’s abuser, for Roiben. Meanwhile, the Ghost betrays the court of shadows. Oh and the finale was INCREDIBLE. Many other things happen but I just really want to publish this review now.IN CONCLUSION: I really enjoyed this book, though as a single entity I did not enjoy it quite as much, and I am excited to have finally finished this series. Now on to more Holly Black. Probably. Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | About |