**3.5-stars**'You cannot fathom the distance I would travel for you.'This high-stakes YA Scifi Adventure really took me by surprise. While I expected it to be good, I didn't know it would be this good. In fact, I had so much fun reading Passenger, I immediately picked up the second book. Initially, I started this one mainly because I hadn't read a good time travel story for almost a year and it is one of my favorite Scifi-subgenres.This book had nonstop action and a scavenger hunt feel, as our main characters, Etta and Nicholas, follow clues to a mysterious object Etta's mother had hidden for her. Sound confusing? At times, I'll admit, I felt a little lost but I think that was due more to my mind wandering because, LIFE, as opposed to an actual issue with the book.This is the first Alexandra Bracken novel I have read and I am happy she has so many other books for me to choose from. Her writing style is very fast-paced and that action kept me flipping pages at a speed that even for me, seemed impressive. I finished this so quickly and am just itching to get farther into Wayfarer. Passenger left off on such a cliffhanger, I can't imagine the people who read it when it first came out having to wait for the 2nd book to be released! Literal torture and this is why I am years behind on my duologies, trilogies and series.If you are looking for a super fast, engaging and lively adventure, this could be a good fit for you. There is some light romance, but nothing too overpowering. I didn't cringe once, so that's huge. I love Nicholas, a time traveling sailor with a heart of gold and manners to match.I really enjoyed Etta as well. She is a violin prodigy under a lot of pressure to perform and live up to expectations. Once she is swept up into the unexpected reality of time travel, we really see her blossom. I thought her character was really strong and took everything in stride. At one point, she thought to herself, if my mother could do this, than so can I. I loved that self-assurance with just taking things as they come. She had no clue about this whole underground world her mother was a part of and she was able to adapt and assert herself. I thought it was great to see that as opposed to a heroine who just needs to be saved!