Pirates, historical settings and time travel! This is pretty much the entire book and I gobbled it up! From the first page, I was already hooked. Bracken's writing pulls you in and keeps you there until the very last chapter. I had no inkling as to what this book was about because I pretty much judged it from the cover, not having read the synopsis either. I'm so happy that I did that because it made me focus on other things and not how close it was to the description. As for the characters? There's Etta who is this driven violinist but has to overcome her stage fright. She also has a mother that she's willing to do anything to please. I thought their relationship and their dynamics were interesting. Especially since they're torn apart, and Etta has to learn how to deal without her mother to help. Then there's the main love interest who is a POC! His history and his back-story were even more interesting than Etta's. Naturally I gravitated towards both of them, wanting them to get together. A free-thinking independent 21st century teenage girl with a well-mannered 1920s young boy, how the year they were born in shaped who they were and who they could be. We both get to see the story unravel from their point of views and you can see the contrast of both. They travel to different parts of history and it was so fun to read about. There's a slow burn romance with stolen glances and touches, which ends up with a lot of kissing scenes. There were a pretty cute couple if I might add. I had such fun imagining all the different eras they fell into. The dialogue between people is formal, such manners! And how Etta realized how young the soldiers were. She experienced history like no one else could and it was shocking to her. Culture-shock almost. I also loved how there was a focus on racism and how Etta experienced it with her own eyes. It was heart-breaking and it made me think about the past myself. Like this quote that came from a character from the 15th century:Isn't it fair to say that slavery has been a boon to Africans? At the very least, it breaks them of their laziness and their barbaric violence—brings them into God's flock. The work they do is fit for their capacities. (132)Then Nicolas (who is African American) thinks:"What mattered was that these beliefs had swept through the souls of everyone like a plague. Even a hundred years in the future, he knew, the roots still had not been fully pulled up from society. Wherever, whenever he went, the colour of his skin set the boundaries of what he could achieve, and there was very little—if any—recourse for finding a way around it." (132)Even though there were parts where the romance was too much, I never felt bored. I liked the story-line and the settings were just great fun to read about. I'm pretty sure any historical romance fan would love this book! Bracken's writing is wonderfully crafted and now I'm itching to read her Darkest Minds series!RATING 4/5QUOTES"It's our choices that matter in the end. Not wishes, not words, not promises." (20)"I don't care what you think, or if you believe in me—I believe in myself, and there is literally nothing in this world that can keep me from playing." (32) "I simply cannot abide the hypocrisy of fighting for a man who supposedly embodies the ideals of freedom, while at home, dozens of slaves work his land." (131)"People believed this trash, and they were spreading it around like it was nothing. Like they weren't even talking about humans." (137)"How do you fight against a mountain? How do you move it when you don't even have a shovel?Maybe you don't have to move it. Maybe you have to climb it." (207)"Everything changes, when given enough time." (248)"A bad idea is better than no idea." (252)"What right did a man have to take the life of such a powerful creature, to prop up his own esteem?" (365)"I cannot help but think, it matters not who you love, but only the quality of such a love." (409)