In a few words, I LOVED ITThis story pulls you in right from the start. I was so drawn in by this world and the characters and the quest. It was captivating. I felt taken along for the journey with Etta and Nicholas, like I was travelling to all these unknown times and worlds myself. The slow unravelling of the story and the mystery was great, and I loved how you had a little insight into each character that other characters didn't know about. This book makes you care so completely about the characters and worry for their poor little hearts. Alexandra Bracken's writing draws you so in, you're so enthralled by the story and captured in the moment. Her writing was wonderful and I love her style so much. I loved both Etta and Nicholas in this (and I admit I kind of pictured them as Daisy Ridley and John Boyega from The Force Awakens??) Both were such captivating and charming and interesting characters. I found I wasn't bored or annoyed by either of them and instead was just really drawn into their story and lives. Etta was such an amazing, passionate young lady I just fell in love with instantly and Nicholas is so charming. Other supporting characters like Sophia and Cryus who were given less time still felt whole and Sophia especially was an interesting character. The time travel in this is kind of similar to the Back to the Future style which is GREAT (I love Back to the Future) and I love that it left you thinking and a little confused. Like, "ohh so if this has already happened that means future character knows because this happened to her 50 years ago even though it's only happening now in the future. " But, I mean thats one of the best things about time travel stories, to me.Finally that ending I'm actually so, so excited to see where this goes. I really want Sophia to grow as a character -- the whole time I felt so sorry for her, really she is just a woman trying to find some agency in a time that doesn't give women any and I hope she can get to some place where she's happy or ?? something ?? And I can't wait to see where Etta has ended up. But most of all I'm intrigued by Julian possibly being alive and I really hope he and Sophia get a happy reunion.I wish I could be a traveller! I love history - this would be the perfect life for me. Far flung places, in far off times. I just loved this book so much it was such a good book LOVED IT LOVED IT LOVED IT.