Soo, after I finished this, I posted my review on Netgalley only! Since the lovely author would like more reviews on the book online, I'm going to post it here (and Amazon, too). Just this little note because how I write on Netgalley (proper, mildly sophisticated, not as sassy) is different than how I write here (you can read what I have below--or basically every other review I have written, lol.) So yeah.Anyway.The ReviewNaturally, I would love this. Alexandra Bracken has a way of writing that entices, agonises, pleases, and seduces you. It's magical. Immediately, you will be hooked into the story, and soon, so very involved with the characters.I loved the complex relationship between Nicholas and Etta. It was slow, gradual, and so sweet! Bracken does her romance in a wonderful manner. But, more importantly, Nicholas and Etta know they have a job and the fact that they continuously look out for each other, have one another's back, shows a wonderful depiction of partnership.The history was... wow, I was rendered speechless. Of course, there was only so much I know from 12 years of history, global or American. Bracken clearly knows her history, however. You can tell she did a LOT of research for this book. She did not gloss over the setting in the different times Etta and Nicholas travelled to. She wove her words so you can picture every new country in their respected century. The descriptions were lush and beautiful. Not only that, Bracken went above and beyond as to explaining some of the cultures, foods, and clothing!Fans of Bracken will NOT be disappointed in passenger. While vastly different from her Darkest Minds trilogy, the storytelling is still up to par. There is action throughout the entire book, so you will not be bored. You are thrown into the story practically immediately. The characters were wonderfully, beautifully, and developed. I'm so excited to see where the second book takes us!---In case you were wondering, I am CONFUSED, IRRATIONAL, and NOT OKAY. But otherwise, not only was this a wild ride, but it was super cute and fast paced and everything you love about Alex Bracken and more!!---BLESS DISNEY-HYPERION AND NETGALLEY BECAUSE oh my gosh I have it.---THAT COVER IS SO MUCH BETTER THAN I ANTICIPATED!---I forget to check this for a few weeks and I'm hit in the face with:that absolutely stunning typography. if that's the title on its own, holy hell, what about that cover?a publication date. yaaaas, September 22nd 2015!!!! even though i'll be starting senior year by then whateverand finally THE BLURB. how awesome does that fucking sound?? its like outlanders (which ive never read) and seraphina's musical sense and some other stuff im really bad at thatpoint is: this is going to be amazing.---OH MY GOD OH MY GOD OH MY GOD. yes. Just all of my yes to every Alexandra Bracken book. Yes.