About: The Wicked Deep is a young adult fantasy written by Shea Ernshaw. It will be published on 3/6/18 by Simon Pulse, an imprint of Simon & Schuster, 320 pages. The genres are young adult, fantasy, paranormal, witches, and fiction. This book is intended for readers ages 14 and up, grades 9 and up. My Experience: I started reading The Wicked Deep on 11/10/17 and finished it on 11/15/17. This book has a fantastic love story! I like the mystery to the legend. I like the cover and the art at each chapter. I like the unexpected twist. I like having a glimpse into all the characters involved, past and present. I like how the title is weaved into the story. I like that I couldn’t guess the surprise twist even though I was waiting for it.This book is told in the first person point of view, following Penny Talbot, 17 who lives on Lumiere Island and goes to Sparrow High School. Sparrow, Oregon has been ravaged by the legend of the Swan sisters (Marguerite, Aurora, and Hazel) where every year starting June 1st, three of the local girls are possessed by the three Swan sisters to lure young men to their deaths in the nearby harbor. Legend says that two centuries ago, the Swan sisters were thought to be witches and they were condemned to death. After that, they come back every year to haunt the locals and take their revenge. No one ever witnessed how the Swan sisters caused the boys’ deaths so their deaths are ruled as drowning or suicides. This book is also told in the third person point of view following the Swan sisters, from their arrival to the town to how they become a legend. From early on, readers will know that Penny and her mom experience grief due to her father’s disappearance. When Bo, an outsider like Penny’s father came to town looking to stay, Penny offers to give him a job. Both are hesitant to share their secrets when it becomes obvious they each have something to hide.This book is very well written. I like the start at once. Legends and curses definitely caught my attention. I couldn’t wait to unravel the mystery. The story is beautifully crafted and all the characters are well liked and well developed, especially the Swan sisters. Lumiere Island and Sparrow don’t sound like an ideal place to live because of it’s constant rain, but it’s a great setting for this book. The romance speeds too quickly for my liking with Penny and her friend Rose. One moment they just met the guys and the next it’s love. Even so, I enjoy the love story greatly and I highly recommend everyone to read this book!Pro: cover, legend, mystery, fast paced, page turner, easy to read,Con: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to the author Shea Ernshaw, publisher Simon Pulse, and Edelweiss for the opportunity to read and review. Please be assured that my opinions are honest.xoxo, Jasmine at www.howusefulitis.wordpress.com for more reviews