Two centuries ago in the small town of Sparrow three sisters were accused of being witches and put to death. The residents of the town tied stones to their ankles and drowned them in the deep waters that surrounded the town. Each years since their deaths the sisters have returned to the small town for a period of a couple of weeks to seek their revenge upon the town by inhabiting the bodies of local young women to tempt the young men of the town to their own death. Seventeen year old Penny Talbot lives in the small town of Sparrow and like many of the local residents she has come to accept the fate of her town every summer while tourists flock the town to see the legend of the sisters carried out. This year however Penny meets Bo Carter who has stumbled into the town the night before the sisters are due to arrive and after hiring Bo to help work the lighthouse her family runs Penny finds herself wanting to do anything she can to keep Bo from the danger that summer. The Wicked Deep by Shea Ernshaw is a young adult fantasy tale featuring witches, curses and a bit of romance added into the mix. A few warnings will come with this review even though I quite enjoyed this one myself. First, for those that hate the old insta-love trope in young adult this one might not be for you as yes the characters move into the love phase fairly quickly. Also, there were a few situations in it that may not be best for a very young crowd. When finished with this one other than a few minor details here or there I rather enjoyed the story overall. This is one that has that creepy vibe with a dark edge involved waiting for the curse to play itself out with a few twists here and there to keep the reader on their toes and the pages turning. It was easy to get to know the characters in the present story while getting bits of the past to learn about the sisters and how they came to curse the town. I'd definitely recommend checking this one out to the young adult fantasy fans.I received an advance copy from the publisher via Edelweiss.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.wordpress....