“Love is an enchantress—devious and wild. It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.”This book was SO much fun.First of all, you need to understand if you say the word witches I am sold. No questions asked, I want the book. Now, add three sisters accused of witchcraft who come back for revenge *ahem, Hocus Pocus vibes anyone?* and I am so sold there is no possible way I could dislike this book. Yet somehow, I still managed to be blown away by this. Although technically the Swan sisters were not witches, only accused of being witches, the magic and the reasons behind it were so freaking good. I still can’t get over it. I was so pleasantly surprised with how much I fell in love with this story and the characters.The writing in this one was GORGEOUS. I would find myself constantly just re-reading scenes in the book because of how beautiful the prose was. Not to mention how wonderful the mystery and legend of the Swan Sisters was woven into the story. It felt completely unique and original which is like a breath of fresh air since I predominately read YA books and they can all kind of mesh into one another. I have a feeling this book is going to stand out from all the other books I’ve read this year for a LONG TIME.Now I will admit that I did figure out the big “plot twist” of the story way before it was revealed , however, it did not ruin the story for me in any way. While it was the main plot twist of the story there was still so much behind it that I never would have guessed which made it even better, if that’s even possible and left me will ALL THE FEELS.The romance aspect to this story was again woven perfectly into it and had me pining after Bo and Penny. Originally, I will admit, I was not a fan of insta-love between Bo and Penny BUT after finishing this and finding out the reason for the insta-love I totally took it back and realized it was a vital part to the story. Also, there is another love story besides Bo and Penny’s and I am LIVING for it. No spoilers though 😉Plus, the ending of this book! Oh my god. I can’t stop thinking about it. Again, SO MANY FEELS.All in all, I want to keep this short because I don’t want to give away too much of anything. If you love witches, mystery, legends, epic love stories, and creepy little towns than look no further than The Wicked Deep.Blog | Twitter | Instagram