2.5Generally a character becomes more likable as a series goes on. But Vanyel actually seems to get worse or at least he doesn't much change as he gets older. It is one thing to see those things in a neglected, abused boy, but they become very unattractive in an adult man. I think part of the problem is that there are times here when he does or says something that just seems to come completely out of the blue. Instances I generally blame on author convenience.  "Oh, I want to kill off all the Herald-Mages and make Van feel even guiltier while I am at it so he can add to his "martyr/I-am-the-only-one-who-can-do-anything" aura. Therefore, even though just two pages ago he was suspicious of the first death I will now have him completely disregard his aunt's words." His aunt that is more of a mother to him than his real mother, his aunt who has been his teacher, friend and constant companion. "Not only will he completely disregard her but he will believe she is, and treat her as, a senile old woman. But once she is dead I will have him exact terrible revenge."Which brings me to my biggest problem with this whole series. The cornerstone of this series is Tylendel. He goes for revenge, uses his lover to open a magical gate, summons nasty creatures, his Companion repudiates him, suicides, breaks Tylendel's mind, the gate does a whammy on Vanyel, Tylendel kills himself, which compounds everything Vanyel is going through.So. The Companion casting him off is what really seemed to break Tylendel. Why does the Companion do this? Because he was seeking revenge. Or at least that is the assumption we are left with after having to listen to an earlier lecture from Savil on the subject. Now, maybe it was more how he chose to exact his revenge, by summoning the super-nasty. Okay, I can see where the Companion and others would be upset. BUT. But, he felt his twin die and knew what had happened. It certainly didn't seem like anyone was interested in getting justice for him and they all just left him alone with Vanyel. He closed his thoughts off to his Companion?-Well, I think that should have been a sign. The thing is, he was broken, he had gone just a wee bit more than slightly mad. With the way the relationship between a Herald and his Companion is portrayed it seemed awfully much like another case of author convenience here. Your child, brother, best friend, lover, whatever goes mad with grief so you cast them out of your life and then kill yourself...that is not a healthy reaction for anyone that is a part of that equation. You don't just throw someone out when they are sick and he was sick, with grief and anger. Even so, I suppose I could have been okay with it except that the Heralds and/or Vanyel are constantly seeking revenge for the death's of their fellow Heralds. So apparently it is okay to seek revenge for another Herald, that died while fighting a war, but it isn't okay to seek revenge for your twin who was ambushed and murdered. *twitch*THEN, in book two we have the stupid Herald that is beating the kid and his Companion with a whip. He isn't mad with grief, his brother didn't just die, he isn't taking revenge on a murderer, he is beating a Companion and his Chosen. But his Companion doesn't break their bond. So it isn't okay to do something out of mindless grief but it IS okay to do something because you are an asshole. I think Tylendel got a crappy Companion, that is what I think. I also think the Heralds are a bit...hypocritical. But Vanyel...*shakes head* I liked him in the beginning. Book two not as much and book three almost killed any liking I had for him at all. He moralizes, but only when it is convenient for him. When Stef gives him the amber and he gets all righteous on him and demands to know how he paid for it...he dropped close to rock bottom there. He makes Stef feel guilty and lectures him on how it could have gone wrong if the guy hadn't been on the up and up. Because Stef is obviously too stupid to figure that shit out on his own. It was like "Stef, you are lucky your friend just wanted you to turn the music up loud because he could have wanted you to go murder small children." (Okay in reality it was more like "Stef it is a good thing your friend only wanted you to soothe and make everyone happy because he could have wanted you to force them to buy something insanely expensive that they couldn't afford and therefore destroy their lives and leave their kids living on the streets as starving beggar children.") Um..yeah and just because the guy wanted it didn't mean Stef would do it. He blew the whole thing out of proportion and between that and the deal with Savil a little bit later, I just about walked away from the book because my liking of Vanyel had come close to rock bottom. The next little bit was just...ugh. The climactic battle was...not shown. I don't think it was shown. I don't remember it being shown. It is possible that I just totally skipped it though in my hurry to make it all end.The end was okay, mostly I was just glad it was over, which sucks because I've always enjoyed Mercedes Lackey's books before. I don't know whether this series just isn't as good or I'm getting pickier. *sigh*