*sobs* I mean, I knew what would happen because it's told as a legend/as history in the "Heralds of Valdemar" trilogy but reading it when you are in love with the main characters? Yeah, that's heavy and I cried during the events in the end. :(First of all - I'm so happy that Van found some happiness and love again and that this love came in the shape of Stef - a Bard with the reborn soul of 'Lendel (not that either Van or Stef knew this). I'm so, so, so happy for this and them.Even though - it broke my heart for Stef. Having to live on for +60 years after Van died defending Valdemar. I mean, yeah, they got reunited in the end and keep on protecting Valdemar but still. He lost Van and had to live on with this hurt for 60 years. I just hope that he found some happiness in all these years.Even with the happiness - Van has been put trough the wringer in this. Having to feel his fellow Herald-Mages die (Savil, oh, Savil)? Knowing that he's the last one? Knowing that Randale is in pain and dying and not being able to help? And then realizing what Shavri did and knowing that they'll lose her too? The torture and rape at the hands of the men of the Master Dark? :( *hugs him so much*My heart has also been breaking for the other Heralds when they, thanks to the web Van modified, realized that Van is in danger (and not being able to help. Same goes for the Guards who came too late.) and when he died. OMG. I mean, we don't get to see this in the book, but my imagination is working just fine in that regard. *hugs them all*But, with all this - there have also been moments in which I laughed out loud because 'Fandes or someone else said/did something funny and I squeed when Starwind and Moondance made an appearance. :) I also love the fact that Jisa and Brightstar knew that Van is her/his father and that he got some (more) love and support due to this.Yeah, this book broke my heart and will stay with me for a while. But, I'm also looking forward to read more in this world because it's awesome. <3