I'm not sure how I feel about this book, so I'm going to ramble (hopefully constructively) and maybe by the end I'll figure out a rating.This series has been a rough ride for me so far. It started out with promising world-building but mostly mediocre execution. It hit some lows (my only one-star rating for this year thus far and a DNF) and it even managed to hit a high with the previous book in this trilogy, Magic's Promise. Everything that's bugged me about this series so far were absent from that book and it just worked. Everything clicked, everything flowed, the character arcs and plot arcs were spot on, the action was on page and fast paced but not hectic. I thought maybe, finally, Lackey had hit her stride.Unfortunately, this book is right back to form: cramming too much into one book while not really focusing on anything for long, painful romantic relationship development, important developments happening off page, and my personal favorite - rape! Just because! *growls* She also threw in Van having a moment of forgetful incompetence, also just because. Neither this fit of laziness nor the rape are in any way required for anything that follows it to happen. Everything would've been exactly the same, so I'm baffled why they were included, and why Lackey has this obsession with throwing in rape in every series. Not only does it lose any kind of dramatic tension or constructive purpose when used so liberally and flippantly, but it's beyond contrived and tasteless. Another thing hurting this is I knew already how it would end, so I got a bit impatient at times to just let the story happen. On the flip side, it was neat to see how some things end up being the way they are later (chronologically).But there's still a lot to like here. Van's still great, and so is Savil and the various side characters. Van and his father come to a new understanding, which is great. I had my doubts about Stefen, especially after the reveal that he might be Tylendel reincarnated, but the way it played out was pretty satisfying and overall, despite the hasty setup, their relationship was a treat to read. I loved seeing Van happy finally! The time spent on Randale, Treven and Jisa was well done too, and I enjoyed seeing how Jisa and Vanyel handle the particular intricacies of their relationship after all these years. I'm just not sure it's enough anymore. And it's frustrating because Lackey can do better; I just read it in the previous book. But it seems like she was determined to make all these story arcs trilogies when they easily could've been fleshed out better with even just one more book in each arc - or even just fifty extra pages. Imagine Harry Potter squeezed into three 350-page books while still hitting all the same plot points and you've got the drift of what's going on here. At the same time, I'm getting used to - or perhaps resigned to - Lackey's style and while it's still not up to my expectations, I am able to go along with it more easily. Of course, I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the dreaded (serious super duper spoiler under here) "bury your gays" at the ending. "Bury your gays" came about because gay characters were/are often included just for the sake of being there to be killed off early on in stories. They were/are never fully developed, played no real part of the story and were there to be killed off so the hetero heroes could go on to save the day. That's clearly not the case here, but given when this was written (early 90s) and the serious lack of positive representation in general at that time, I have no issue categorizing this as Bury Your Gays. Just because Van used his own agency when he sacrificed himself to save Valdemar, was the main hero of this trilogy and remains a legend of high respect even in Talia's time doesn't mean he's any less dead at the end of this story.But my issue isn't with how these characters died; they're not the first major characters to die in this series and I doubt they'll be the last. It's that Van had to suffer loneliness after Tylendel's death for almost two decades, until Stefen (Tylendel's spirit reborn) came along. They're happy for awhile, then Van dies and Stefen has to suffer loneliness for the rest of his life. Why did Talia and her honey get a HFN but Van and Stefen/Tylendel never do except in spirit form? And of course, both of them had to attempt suicide after losing their loves because reasons. I think Lackey was aiming for literary symmetry here, but it's not satisfying to read.I think pre-Magic's Promise, this would've been 3.5 stars easily, maybe downgraded to 3 stars because of the unnecessary rape. And it doesn't seem fair to lowball it because it's post-Magic's Promise either. So for now, I'm going to go with three "IDK what the hell else to rate it" stars.