I wanted to be a soldier. Someone who would earn standing in Winter. Someone Sir would look at with pride. Someone Mather would look at and—No.This is one of the best high fantasy I've read this year, which might not mean much, considering the crap I've read, but I can only attest to my enjoyment of it. This book is good. But...but there's the love triangle.I’m at the center of this, a weird possessive feud between the Winter king and the Cordellan prince.Why there gotta be a love triangle, man?! For all that's holy...But onto the good. This book has:1. A well-developed setting and an engrossing story, those of you who've read Game of Thrones will find the season-based setting in this book very, very familiar2. A strong female main character who will not make your head hurt, and complex relationships between side characters3. A believable romance. Fine, there is a fucking love triangle that is truly, truly stretched out. The good thing is that both love interests are deeply likeable...which just ends up making it more painful WHEN YOU LIKE BOTH GUYS. ARG!By the way, this is a fucking long book. Seriously fucking long. It could stand to be cut 50 pages.The Summary:I’m running. Running through gray streets choked with smoke as hordes of people run too, more explosions corralling us into Angra’s grasp. That’s what they’re doing—corralling the Winterians like sheep so they can lead them to a life of slavery and pain.Except for us. The seven who still live with Winter’s future king. Originally twenty-five refugees who kept Angra up at night, reduced to eight.Young Meira's life is dire. She is an orphan, but she's not the only one. She's lucky to be an orphan, because that means at least she, out of her family, has survived.The kingdom of Winter lies in ruins. Destroyed by an evil magician, a psychopath. Hundreds of thousands of Winterians are dead. God knows how many are left...but for Meira, her world consists of her little army of 8. The rest are dead, disappeared, gone. Within the eight survivors are "Sir", the hardened soldier who rescued young Meira when she was but a child, and Mather...Winter's future king.King in name only, that is, because there is no Winter to return to.Mather and Meira are friends, fellow fighters. She is a soldier, and so is he. They have been trained to fight and survive. Sparks fly between them, but there can never be a future for the two of them, during peace or war.No matter our dire circumstances, no matter our shared upbringing, no matter the chill his smile sends over my body, he’s still him, and I’m still me, and yes, he needs to have a female heir someday, but with a proper lady, a duchess or a princess—not the girl who spars with him.The problem lies beyond Winter's destruction. It lies in the fact that Mather, the heir to Winter, is a male. The kingdom of Winter is a matriarchy, where magic is passed on through a female-blooded conduit. As a male, Mather is nigh useless. Except as a breeding stud for a future queen.(That's quite a nice change!)There's also the fact that the magical Conduit is missing. Stolen. Hidden. In two pieces, and useless until they can be reunited.There's also the fact that The Decay rips across the land, destroying it. Sneaking into people's hearts. Making them do horrible things.There's also the fact that the evil tyrant still remains, his goal to destroy the kingdoms. To wipe Winter---and its heir, out of existence.From all this mess, what can one girl do? Meira has no magic. She is not the strongest fighter. All she has is strength, determination, willpower, and an immense sense of loyalty to her kingdom.Is that enough? Will Meira be content to be a pawn?You don’t know anything, Meira, and I’m sorry if this...is hard for you to accept, but it will happen. You wanted to matter to Winter? This is how Winter needs you.”Or will Meira become the person she knew she could be all along?“Don’t you want more than this?” I breathe.“Every day of my life.”The Setting: It’s so cold that foreigners have to wrap in layers of fur to walk from building to building, while our natural Winterian blood keeps us warm even in the worst conditions. And snow is everywhere, always, so much that the grass beneath it is white from lack of sun. An entire kingdom wrapped in an orb of eternal winter.Call it a GoT clone if you want, but I quite loved the setting in this book. There are the Rhythm kingdoms...countries with seasons, and the Season kingdoms...countries with just one season each. Spring. Summer. Fall. Winter. Each with their own characteristics. Each with their own eternal seasons. Each with their distinguishing features within their people.The Winter kingdom, for instance...obviously remain in perpetual winter. And the strength of their people reflect their harsh conditions. They cannot imagine a life without endless cold, they think the people of the warmer climes are weaklings. Their coloring reflect their country. Winterians, for example, all have snow-white skin and hair.The different kingdoms have their different customs---and curses. They think the others are barbaric and savages. I enjoyed everything about the world-building, the magic, and the setting within this book. It was intricately built.Meira: But no matter how dire our situation, how desperate Sir gets, he will never see me as an asset. Just the overexcited child he had the misfortune of raising.Meira is one of the strongest characters I've read in high fantasy this year. Again, given the absolute crap I've read this year, that might not say much, but allow me to say that there is nothing about her that I hated.She is a soldier, above all else. She can fight, and she fights---repeatedly, for her life.I cannot die like Crystalla...I still have my knife. I still have a chance.Yes, Meira has feeeeeeeeeelings, but they feel normal, unobtrusive. A momentary spike of teenaged hormones instead of overwhelming insta-love or lust, or anything heaviliy romantic that persists throughout the book. Her feelings and her emotions are normal, and utterly relatable.Meira is strong, and stubborn, but never, ever TSTL (too-stupid-to-live). She is never cut your nose to spite your face kind of dumb. She doesn't like dresses. She likes being a tomboy, but when she has to wear one. Hey, why not. Enjoy the frill while it lasts. Don't fight it. It's for a good cause.My hair, a giant array of pinned-back curls, hangs messy yet soft with a few white strands dangling free around my face.I click my mouth shut. Maybe being a little fancier isn’t a horrible thing.One of the things I loved most about Meira is her relationship with her guardian, Sir.Occasionally I could catch a flicker—a twinge around his eyes when Mather faltered in sparring, a twitch of his lips when I begged to learn how to fight. But that was all I ever saw of the general who once carried a baby for days to safety. Like all of his actual tenderness was gone, but every so often his muscles convulsed from the memory of it.I loved their complex relationship. I loved his harshness, and his unwincing criticism of her. I loved the way she constantly strives for, never quite reaching his approval. I loved his love for her, so obvious that anyone can see it but her. I love the way she constantly doubts herself, the way she constantly tries and tries and tries to just be good enough in his eyes. I love their love-hate relationship. It is one of the best relationships I've ever read in a high fantasy.The Romance: Really. Why there gotta be a love triangle, man? Especially when one of the love interest is...this.“Thank you.” I nod to his ankle. “For everything. You didn’t—”He shakes his head. “Yes, I did. You deserve to fight for your home as much as the rest of us do.”And this.Mather never got mad at me for pulling him into mischief or for breaking during Sir’s interrogations. He’d just smile, throw his arm around me, and say something encouraging.Mather has always been a king, every moment of his life.Really, I hated it. I loved Mather, despite his name, which always brings to mind Eminem (AKA Marshall Mathers of the I'm slim shady fame). Mather is such a good love interest, which made me root for him.WHICH MADE IT EVEN SUCKIER WHEN I COULDN'T EVEN HATE THE OTHER LOVE INTEREST. Who is not a king, but a prince. And man, is he a princely prince. He's not even a douchebag! He is a king, playful, gentlemanly prince who...CARES ABOUT HIS PEOPLE. How the fuck does a girl choose?!He knows all of them. Every single one. And not only that, but he seems genuinely interested in them, remembering not only dozens of faces but also the smallest details about how that back acre of farmland is doing, did the trade with Yakim go well last week, is your daughter settled with her new husband yet?Why there gotta be a love triangle, man?The only reservations I have about this book is that I couldn't connect to the main character...she was fine. There was nothing wrong with her. I thoroughly liked her, but she was missing a spark that makes me truly love a character. Furthermore, it was extremely predictable. Seriously. I guessed the twist within 15% of the book.Overall, solid, solid buy. Read it.All quotes were taken from an advanced copy subject to change in the final edition.