1.5 starsWell, this was underwhelming as heck.First things first: with this review, I don't mean to say that this is a bad book, because it's not. In fact, I can see why so many people loved it, but it definitely wasn't for me. It was just so generic and bland, and was completely identical to every other fantasy novel I've read before. Nothing about it was remarkable. I found the whole seasons idea to be quite silly: what is it with authors these days, that they keep naming things after seasons, colors (yes, The Darkest Minds) or numbers (yes, The Selection)? How effin' CREATIVE of you. This book's main problem was basically its utter lack of originality. There is a kingdom that has been destroyed by a generic villain, a magic system that makes very little sense (okay, I get it, it's magic. But still.) and really boring characters. Meira, the main character, was the most interesting one of the lot - but then of course she had to be a super special snowflake and everything that made her fascinating just disappeared. Awesome. As for the other characters... I really have no idea what to say, since I can barely remember their names. They did not have their own personality, but they existed only when they interacted with Meira, and I have very mixed feelings about the love interests (yes, plural). I couldn't stand Mather, the great warrior and soon-to-be-king who thought so damn highly of himself. Meira's fascination with him made no sense to me, and whenever his name popped out on the page I let out an exasperated sigh because NO MORE PLEASE. Theron, on the other hand, was quite likable. He was kind and smart, but again, really generic (you'll have to excuse my repetition of the word, but it's the only way I can describe this book). I liked him because there was nothing not to like about him, but he had no real depth as a character. As for the plot, I feel like I just read 400 pages of nothing. It was quite hard for me not to DNF the book, because a) the characters just... They kept traveling from one place to another. They were constantly on the run, and it felt like a big series of different situations and a million of different subplots. Annoying., and b) the info-dumps. They were one of the main things that prevented me from enjoying the book. There were countless pages explaining how everything worked, and it was repetitive and boring. I found myself skipping entire paragraphs and even whole pages because I was too bored to keep reading.The ending was predictable and as underwhelming as the rest of the book. I feel like Snow Like Ashes had great potential but was executed really poorly, with average writing, boring characters and a plot that was going nowhere. My favorite scenes were actually the (few) more light-hearted scenes at king Noam's palace, and I think Raasch does much better with friendly banter than she does when she attempts to write epic battles and meaningful conversations that end up bordering on overdramatic. Then again, don't let my review discourage you. I still think a lot of people are going to enjoy this book, but if you've read a lot of YA fantasy and you're sick of seeing the same things happen all over again, Snow Like Ashes might not be the right book for you.