"I can feel him eyeing Mather, both of them caught in an awkward web surrounding me. I'm at the center of a weird possessive feud between the Winter king and the Cordellan prince. How in the name of all that is cold did that happen?"I have no idea. But of course, no love triangle is complete without manly preening! "It whacks into the center of the target, the handle wobbling from force. Theron turns to me, half his face slight with the beginnings of a smile. "My weapon of choice doesn't matter," he says, continuing our conversation like nothing happened. His eyes flash to Mather over my shoulder. "No matter what, I always hit my mark."To be fair, Meira doesn't spent a lot of time mooning over Boy 1 and Boy 2. Her country, Winter, was destroyed by Spring several years ago and the handful of them not in work camps live in constant fear, moving from one place to the next. Their only hope is that the boy king, Mathe, escaped with them and someday, they might find the magic conduit that Angra stole from them and they can rebuild their lives. Sounds pretty awesome, right? The premise reminds me of Avatar the Last Airbender. The Fire Nation wiped out the Air Nomads except for Aang and now, he has to defeat them. Also like Avatar, Snow Like Ashes' world is split into four countries: Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. Only female heirs can use magic, which is pretty awesome. Though in hindsight, it's used to facilitate the twist that Meira is Hannah's daughter, which is less awesome.But the writing, guys. I've figured out why YA Fantasy and I don't gel. Most of it is written in smothering Laini Taylor prose and it makes me feel like I'm wading through a pool of syrup. I keep kicking out my arms and legs, looking for something substantial to hold onto, but it's gooey mush. Not bad per se--it's actually quite good--but just not for me. The story isn't interesting enough to make up for the writing. Info-dumps plague the narrative in the worst way. When Meira first arrives in Spring, she hears someone curse, "Golden leaves," then proceeds to spend a big, unnecessary paragraph explaining it."Just as Winter focused its magic on mining, Coredell focuses its conduit on opportunity--on helping its citizenswork a situation in their favor so they get the most out of it. Opportunistic, resourceful, swindlers: whatever they're called, they can make "leaves turn to gold"--a Cordellan phrase Sir explained in our many lessons, referring to the fact that they're so good at turning a profit it's as if they make leaves on a tree turn into gold coins. That explains Captain Dominick's curse earlier--golden leaves."Plus, I saw the twist coming miles away. Will others like Snow Like Ashes? Maybe. But it just didn't click with me.