“This is not a choice between life and death, but life and immortality! Remain here and die in obscurity, or follow me now and live forever!”
There are two ways to read this book, from what I can tell. You can read it as a fantasy novel (what it indeed may have been written as), and expect a stunning well-crafted narrative of epic proportions equal to the giants of fantasy literature. And you’ll be horribly disappointed when you notice all the aspects in which it falls flat. There is simply too much inconsistency, flagrant use of deus ex machina, overused sexual humour and a story that essentially stops being good three quarters of the way through as the author decided he needed to wrap up quickly. That’s the first way.Alternatively, you can read it like the novelisation of a Dungeons & Dragons campaign. This reading justifies nearly all of the above, your expectations are significantly lowered, and you can simply enjoy the book for what it seems to be.The evidence for the second reading being the best one should be plentiful and convincing: the setting has generic lands and kingdoms that nobody cares about and do not matter to the story. The story is centred on groups of adventurers practically functioning as heroic rockstars, even going so far as to have band names. We follow them adventure, make camp, be ambushed, fight random arrow fodder creatures, and indeed both enter dungeons and fight dragons. There are poorly veiled references to classic D&D creatures, the humour is juvenile, there is a lot of modern references being close to breaking the fourth wall (including fantasy viagra), and there are artifacts with ridiculously unrealistic and unexplained names. And the author states clearly that the world of the Forgotten Realms is one of his biggest inspirations. It shows.The heroes are, of course, your average D&D group. You can almost see them being played by a group of adventure-addicted young men in a dim suburban basement surrounded by half-eaten boxes of delivered pizza. Their DM has even deigned to give them all iconic magic weapons with illustrious backstories. This means, naturally, that they are hardly the deepest. They are cardboard cutouts with little in the way of personality except nostalgic heroism. But, as with any D&D campaign, the splendour lies in the NPCs. "After what happened to my parents, and what I did to those children, what could I have become but a monster?"Larkspur is the best of the bunch, and it is a rarity to read about a character whose role is improved by being hit in the head. Others are almost equally intriguing: the murdering adulterous queen with the laughably unimaginative name, the druins, dark and mysterious remnants of a mythic past, Jain the thieving bandit with a heart of gold, and on and on. The group’s undead bard (what a wonderful idea) is another example:“You should write a book,” Matrick suggested. Kit snorted. “Who wants to read the self-pitying lamentations of an old revenant?” “There's your title right there,” said Ganelon.From the unrealistic and unbelievable to the straight up trashy (in a fun way); from references to World of Warcraft and The Elder Scrolls to the most fan service-heavy segments of any fantasy, this is a all-encompassing nerdy pop culture phenomenon more than anything else.Overall, Kings of the Wyld is not an excellent book in any technical way. It is not among the greats of the fantasy genre and it is not a memorable piece of literature. It will not win any hard-hitting awards, nor does it deserve them, but nor does it need them. What it is, however, is perhaps the finest ever example of turning the classical Dungeons & Dragons experience into a novel. Nearly every attempt at this turns out a disaster, but Nicholas Eames succeeds.