Bloody fantastic!!! All the stars!I’m going to tell you all a big secret of mine. You ready?I’m great at reading epic fantasty books but I’m down right terrible at reviewing them!The secret is out! ¯\_(ツ)_/¯So here goes!Kings of the Wyld was one of the best fantasy books that I’ve read in years. It had the perfect balance of humor, camaraderie and action all in one fantastic book!Honestly, I wish I could give this more then 5 stars because I loved everything about it! From all the great characters in the band, the monsters, the journey through Heartwyld, to the ending.I’m actually not sure which character was my favorite from Clay Cooper who’s the reliable and cautious member of the group Saga, or the funny and brilliant Moog who’s the magician of the band.Saga was the name of the band that Clay Cooper, Moog, Gabriel, Matrick and Ganelon were apart of when they were younger, tougher and crazier.They would go into the Heartwyld, which is a huge forest with every type of scary and crazy monster hiding in it. They would forge together as a team, capture the beast and rid the surrounding area of whatever was killing people. It could be a dragon, a horde of centaurs, a chimera, to a crazy cyclops. This book had every cool and great monster/beast in it!Now Saga has been disbanded. The members are all older, fatter, drunk or just don’t have the heart to battle anything these days.Kings of the Wyld starts off with Gabriel showing up on Clay’s door asking for help in rescuing his daughter from a horde of monsters that has surrounded the city of Castia.The castle and city are in ruins and people are dying everyday from the monsters and beasts.Gabriel finds a way to talk Clay into making one last stand and journey through the wilds of the Heartwyld again. But first, in order to do this impossible task, they’ve got to get the band back together!Kings of the Wyld had a great rock and roll vibe to this book along with excellent dialogue and well thought out world building.Would I recommend this book? Your fucking sweet ass I would!! I can’t wait to read the next book in the series, Bloody Rose!Seriously, kudos Nicholas Eames on writing one of the best well rounded, funny, and action packed books with tons of heart! I would laugh so hard my sides would hurt and then next, I would be sad and crushed by some of the dialogue between the band members.It's just great writing and characterization.And yeah Moog, I want an owlbear now too. hahaha!It can’t get much better in the fantasy genre then this!