I now have a YouTube channel that I run with my brother, called 'The Brothers Gwynne'. Check it out - The Brothers Gwynne
Just finished Kings of the Wyld. To put it simply, it was incredible. Such a creative, original, fun and thoughtful read. I loved it.With Kings of the Wyld we follow the perspective of Clay Cooper, the equivalent of the bass player of a band, the steadfast member of the group. He is surprised to see his old friend, Gabriel, who says he needs the old mercenary band to get back together, to save his daughter.Alongside the humour and characters that Nicholas Eames has become famed for, I am surprised I have not heard more talk about his prose. It is fantastic. I mean, this is part of the opening paragraph...“His shadow, drawn out by the setting sun, skulked behind him like a dogged reminder of the man he used to be: great and dark and more than a little monstrous”This perfectly formed the character of Clay Cooper in my mind, as well as the mood and atmosphere of the book, as it seems simultaneously severe and playful. I think the way Nicholas Eames exploits his prose is masterful in the way it is used to exemplify character, whilst also being so easy and accessible to read. It remains simple, but effectively does so much. There are so many quotes I could have picked out, for so many reasons. Whether it be witty, insightful, poetic, or all three at once, Nicholas Eames’ prose is punchy and brilliant.At the heart of this story is the characters. The members of Saga, who used to be the most famous mercenaries, are beyond their prime, but drawn together through the unbreakable bonds of friendship. Despite the trials and tribulations they have undergone in their own disparate lives, when one needs the rest, they will be there. How awesome is that? The theme of friendship acting at the core of a story will never become boring, and in this Nicholas Eames portrays it beautifully.“‘Gabriel leaned forward in his chair, the flame of a father’s fear and anger alight in his eyes. ‘It’s time to get the band back together.’”Alongside the characters and prose which I have established I thought were both brilliant, the plot continues in this vein. With a story driven by characters and humour, I expected the plot to be affected. Alas, I was wrong. The plot is used to harness and propel the relationships that Nicholas Eames explores, and is on its own unique, quirky, funny and compelling.The world is that of monsters, mercenaries, numerous races, relics and magic. We see much of what we know and love of the ‘old fantasy’ brought back here in a fresh light. Nicholas Eames in this has created a book that we as the reader can disappear in with awe, but he has also injected serious themes commenting on many levels of mental health, in what I would say is the perfect balance of severity and humour.“A little embellishment was so often the difference between a good story and a great one"I would say that in this, Nicholas Eames has crafted a masterpiece in storytelling. These characters could become iconic, they are that good. The plot is engaging and compelling and immersive. The tone mirrors that of life. There is humour, there is friendship, and there are the hard times. Whilst there is a strong point in the humour, it must be emphasised that it is not to the detriment to other things. Humour was not employed for the sake of it. It correlated with characterisation in a realistic manner that made me want to be part of this group of friends. In a read, you cannot ask for more.So, after my rambling proclamations of love for this book, I hope that you give Kings of the Wyld a go, if you have not already. Clay Cooper and the whole gang will remain close to my heart for long to come, and I will most certainly be wanting to re-read this in the future. It goes straight into my list of favourite books of all time, and is up there with being simultaneously one of the funniest reads as well as being thought provoking.5/5 STARS - One of the best books, yet alone debuts, I have had the pleasure to read