While reading this book I made the following status update, and as I progressed through Kings of the Wyld it only became more true: You know when you've tried a bunch of different soup brands that all have delicious looking labels but taste like shit, and finally you find a soup that tastes as good as it looks? That's how reading this book feels. This is because I've read Fantasy books where the primary thing people tell me in their recommendation is "It's really funny."Books like Traitor's Blade, Prince of Fools, and even Theft of Swords to an extent, I began reading because I expected they would be hilarious. And hilarious they were.
But my problem with those books is that they did not hold my attention otherwise.
Kings of the Wyld is one of the first Fantasy books of its ilk that provided a complete package for me.✓ A group of old men reuniting after the "end credits" & reliving their glory days of badassery.✓ A gripping quest plot through a wonderfully crafted world.✓ An excellently written sense of humor.✓ NERD REFERENCES FOR DAYSSSSS.I have heard that Nicholas Eames was inspired by Ready Player One, but I am of the opinion that this book "wore it better" if you will. Where Ernest Cline's references are so densely packed into the story that they sometimes alienate the audience, Eames seamlessly includes his allusions with the same subtley you can observe in video game easter eggs. They're there for those who can appreciate them, but they aren't so in your face that you're left feeling like the only person in history who has ever had a joke sail over their head.I'm sure that I didn't pick up on every nod in this book, but I particularly loved the video game references & the "music group" terminology. Everything from Final Fantasy to Portal is referenced & it gave me a blessed sense of nostalgia while reading. Terms like "going on tour" and "headlining" were used, and the series itself is even titled The Band. I really enjoyed how this book didn't take itself so seriously, but still delivered a rollicking escapade full of action & entertainment & genuinely believable characters. Specifically our central character, Clay Cooper, is an absolute gem.My only real issue with this book is that there were a few times I felt myself falling out of concentration when fight scenes popped up. My friend Liam mentioned in his review that he would've liked to feel more connected to characters outside of Clay, and while I agree with the sentiment, I am expecting we will have that opportunity in future installments & so I'm willing to withhold judgement for now.Ultimately, an incredibly fun ride. It confidently turns our Fantasy expectations on their heads in hysterical & unexpected ways. Would absolutely recommend for nerdy Fantasy lovers looking for a laugh!Edit: it's been brought to my attention that Nicholas Eames has amazing parents who read reviews of his book, so hi mom & dad congrats on having a really cool & talented son!