This book. THIS FREAKING BOOK! Man, I'm blown away, yet again, by another book this year. It's been a pretty amazing year of books, and this one comes very close to topping that list. "Hit it like you hate it."I'm convinced that Canada births some of the most gifted Fantasy writers. You've got Steven Erikson, Sebastian de Castell and now, added to that list, is Nicholas Eames. This is, quite possibly, my favorite debut novel. Right behind Traitor's Blade by Sebastian de Castell and Theft of Swords by Michael J Sullivan. After dabbling so much in multiple POV books I've grown to not like first-person POV's quite as much. Since the person we're getting the POV from tends to either be a Gary Stue/Mary Sue (I think that's the right terminology) or extremely annoying. Eames had done something quite remarkable here and given us Clay Cooper: a protagonist that is flawed enough to seem real, but awesome enough that I never got sick of his POV. Something that can make or break a book for me is, by far, the characters. I can deal with a crappy plot, as long as the characters are well written. This book excelled in both areas. But I like to keep my reviews spoiler free so I'll focus on the characters in this section. We get this band of mercs that are among the best bromances I've ever read. They're hilarious, bad ass savages. It would be folly for me to try and pick my favorite. They each being their own awesomeness to the table. Seriously. Usually there is at least one character that's too perfect or just annoying. He has managed, like he did with Clay, to create a whole band full of unique characters that being something to the table to help strengthen the group. I thought the classic rock references would eventually get old, but to my surprise and satisfaction, he did it perfectly. Some hidden so well that you might miss the majority of them. Also, the video game feel you get from it is subtle enough that it doesn't over power the story, but you'll pick up on it if you've played these games. D&D seeming to be one of the biggest influences.Now, to touch briefly on the story. I'll keep this spoiler free, as well. Eames has managed to create a story with the most perfect mix of grim dark and humor. It doesn't feel like he set out with a goal to write a grimdark story and I loved that. It was just a byproduct of the world he created. His prose is among some of the best, as well. He's managed to write a story vivid enough to make you feel like you're there, but it's tight and fast-paced enough for you to not get bored. To me, that seems like a tough thing for authors to balance. And he's done it so well. There were so many laugh out loud moments that I thought I was going to get kicked out of the coffee shop. I don't think I could ever do this book justice with a review. If you're a fan of Fantasy and have a love for classic rock or video games, pick this up, immediately. If you're just a fan of well-written Fantasy, pick this up, immediately!