massive buddy-read with cheaters who started the book early amazing people.
The cake is a lie.
Looking at the reviews, I could find just one review under 4 stars rating and I know only one person who didn't fall head over heels in love with this book. So welcome to my verra bitchy lonely I liked this book, but over all, it was a disappointing experience review.I adored KoW for the first 100 pages or so. The feelies every word evoked, the adorable humour, the interesting setting and most of all, the amazing writing... Almost everyone in the buddy-read was having a great time with a lot of laughs, but I think my emotion patches were malfunctioning, since it was mostly sadness with a chuckle here and there for me. Still, it was a great read, in a different way.But The Cuckold King aka Matty broke the spell. I disliked him and seeing the shallowness of his character caused me to look at the others with my bitchy-coloured glasses too.Basically, the whole plot felt like a recyled monster fight, fought by unkillable bots in a game choke full of every fantasy creature the author could think of. There is even a chapter named "Sheer Dumb Luck" that summarises what's going on, quite well.our heroes *on the left* vs anyone and everyone *on the right*If, this book wasn't the most hyped book I've seen in GR to date, with splendid reviews that kept raising the expectations for me, I might have enjoyed it more. But phrases like "a mixture of Joe Abercrombie and Scott Lynch and Patrick Rothfuss" in almost every review, set the bar very high, took this book out of the "parody" box to a more serious line. And led me to believe that I was about to read a book which tackled serious concepts in a non serious way, that there would be a hidden depth to the story. Something would come out of the pages and slap me with a WOW so hard, I'd drown in my amazement. But what I got was the same rthym;And then;I absolutely hate it when heroes/heroines die in a book, after all the emotions I invest in them, it affects me bad. Usually, I get sad about even side characters' death. But here, I wish all of them had died. And somehow, their deaths was the thing that set the epic ending to motion. I would be mad, call the author some unsavory names, but also call this book a masterpiece of debut novels. Because there's great imagination and writing here!Another thing that went over my head was the references to songs, games etc. I only caught one or two, and of course "
the cake is a lie
" line. And that's ironic, in a way. Would I be amazed with this book, and overlook the lack of depth in the story, if I was able to discern those secret messages / be a fan of those games? I don't know. But the tasteful soundtrack list author has posted in his website, definetely upped my enjoyement.I loved buddy reading with everyone, but this experience made me realise, that I am a shitty buddy reader and others' reactions sometimes changes my expectations and make me doubt my own reactions. So I will go back to lurking in group read threads for the books I'm enjoying but will not join another one, unless it is just one or two people.