Actual rating 4.5/5 stars. This is the second instalment in the Abhorsen series. Whilst Sabriel wrapped up in a satisfactory manner, I still was left with many questions and so was a little disappointed , initially, to find that Lirael takes place fourteen years after the events depicted in book one. This disappointment was short lived as I was introduced to the immediately lovable Lirael, daughter of the Clayr but without their infamous sight for future events. She is disheartened at her lack of skill and so throws her energy into her new role as librarian and in honing her skill with charter magic. She proves adept at both, but not with staying out of trouble or venturing into areas she shouldn't be. This proves fortunate, as she happens across an ancient prophecy bearing her name and so begins her adventures that will lead her away from the Clayr's glacier home and any future she had envisioned for herself.The other perspective belonged to Prince Sam. He was alike to Lirael in that he did not seem to hold the necessary skills for his perceived future station. He differed in that he was willing to do nothing about it but bemoan his fate. I struggled to connect with his character on the same level as Lirael's but I did enjoy the adventures he also went on, and seeing them intertwine with Lirael's.This book was made complete by the return of Mogget, the free magic being forced into cat-shaped snarky servitude, and the new addition of The Disreputable Dog, a currently dog-shaped being from before the charter was made. He is far more willing to aid his current companions but has a far more murkier past. I am looking forward to puzzling out these secrets in the coming series instalments!Despite this entire book leading to a future adventure and solving none of the current mysteries or overcoming any of the enemies lurking close at hand, this did not suffer from any sort of middle-book-syndrome. The plot was fast-moving, even more so than in book one where the skills of charter magic and necromancy were introduced, and largely unguessable in trajectory. I foresee book three, Abohrsen, to wrap up these dilemmas and the series to be nothing but action, from here on out.