Sabriel was a pure pleasure to read. Lirael was as appalling as Sabriel was awesome. It sported an insecure and impulsive heroine drowning in her angst and her companions: an idiot of a selfish prince and a dog (a dog!).Lirael is a Daughter of the Clayr, compensating her lack of Sight (i.e. the ability to see future) with other capabilities like outstanding sociopathy and a penchant for magic. Yes, Lirael is one of these special snowflakes we love reading about. She is so standing apart that she does not feel like talking to anyone, then she feels excluded, then she can go on through days of not talking to anyone, then she wants to commit a suicide because she feels excluded. In the course of drama, drama, drama, drama she becomes a librarian, visits places she's not supposed to venture to and creates a magic dog of considerable powers, possibly even bigger than her own (just like that). Finally, when it is confirmed just oh how special the girl is, she is sent out of the glacier to save the world. In the meantime, the idiot of a selfish prince, abandons his family and kingdom in the hour of need, gallivanting through the Dead infested country (in spite his overwhelming fear of Death) pursuing a quest of his own choosing. Because why not?Inevitably these two aggravating figures meet and misery ensues as they plunge from one trouble to another slowly piecing together the evil they must face. Even the Mogget was not enough to balance this preposterous setting. I was fuming throughout this novel, especially that it constitutes such stark contrast with Sabriel. I never expected to be let down by Mr Nix - and in such an underhanded manner! My wounds have already scarred, but still, the book does not deserve more than 2 stars and another half for the story potential. Lirael is the necessary prelude to Abhorsen, the third of the set. If your love is for Sabriel and Touchstone only, leave Lirael alone. If you want to learn more about the wonderful world of the Old Kingdom - keep calm and endure it, as the final part of the trilogy will make it worth your while.Also in the series: 1. Sabriel 3. Abhorsen