SO EXCITED THAT WE GOT TO INTERVIEW JOE ABERCROMBIE! Check it out here - JOE ABERCROMBIE INTERVIEW - talking THE WISDOM OF CROWDS, FUTURE PROJECT and more... Before They Are Hanged is my favourite read of 2021, thus far.Well, after I finished The Blade Itself I planned to read something else before diving into Before They Are Hanged. But that was naive of me! I needed this next instalment, so I burnt through the book I had just started, finished it that day, and picked this up, and was not disappointed in the least.“We should forgive our enemies, but not before they are hanged.” Before They Are Hanged takes everything that was great about its predecessor, The Blade Itself, and elevates it. The first instalment explores character wonderfully, with the plot taking the back foot, but ended in a way that allowed Before They Are Hanged to go straight into advancing characterisation and the plot. The balance was just wonderful.With the first instalment setting up these characters fantastically, we see them grow through the events that occur in Before They Are Hanged, with this growth at times making them more bitter people, disillusioned from the glory of war, or at times gives people hope, or a feeling of belonging. The variation of emotions and themes that Joe Abercrombie can simultaneously explore whilst subtly advancing character and the psychology of these creations is in my opinion just masterful.“People love to see death. It reminds them that however mean, however low, however horrible their lives become… at least they have one.”I loved The Blade Itself, but not because of the plot. Before They Hanged has an amazing story, in which there is much more action and many more moments of fear and suspense, with each of our favourite characters being thrown out of their depth and into dangerous situations. Despite these characters having serious flaws, and some doing terrible, terrible things, Joe Abercrombie somehow makes me feel for them, because he makes them sympathetic, and grey, so that they feel real. N one is entirely good or entirely evil, and Abercrombie takes this in his stride and manipulates our emotions with it.In Before They Are Hanged Abercrombie shows that he can also right small scale and large scale conflicts and battles pretty fantastically. He allows these to further characterisation so well, maintaining a certain intimacy whilst also adding that epic factor so many of us love.This story has dark humour like nothing else I have ever read. When I think about it, there are no "happy" events, yet it has those light moments and constant moments of humour that lighten the tone and make sure this is just not one slog of dread and depression. There is variety in the tone as well, and whilst the humour is dark, I just could not resist laughing, and it fitted organically into the story.“Anyone can face ease and success with confidence. It is the way we face trouble and misfortune that defines us.”Before They Are Hanged in my opinion shows that Joe Abercrombie is a master storyteller. In this story he has unforgettable characters, both point of views and side characters, an engaging plot, great exploration of the world, moments of fear, laughter, dread and everything in between. It is a book that has so much to love.I now have a YouTube channel that I run with my brother, called 'The Brothers Gwynne'. Check it out - The Brothers Gwynne