ForebodingMysterious, atmospheric and compelling! “I still remember the day my father took me to the Cemetery of Forgotten Books for the first time. It was the early summer of 1945 … ‘Daniel, you mustn’t tell anyone what you’re about to see today,’ my father warned.”  This fantastic opening sets the scene for an eerie and mysterious story that changes the air you occupy and brings goosebumps and chills as you weave through the adventure Daniel embarks on. The tradition for those that are fortunate to visit the ‘Cemetery of Forgotten Books’ for the first time is that they get to adopt a book. Daniel, on his first visit, chooses  ‘Shadow of the Wind’ by Julian Carax. Or the book picks him! Daniel, along with his father, his father’s friend, Barcelo, and Barcelo’s niece Clara, investigate the background of the author, only to realise that this is a heartbreaking story of doomed love and grief. Their research uncovers the dramatic events that befell Julain Carax and his beloved Penelope, and this copy of the book may be the last surviving version of ‘Shadow of the Wind’.Years later, out walking one night, through a misty, chilling Barcelona, a mysterious rasping voice calls Daniel from the shadows and offers any amount of money for the book. By match-light, Daniel sees a burnt, grotesque, and mutilated face demanding the book be handed over, and for his sake and the sake of his friend Clara he better give it to him. When Daniel asks what he wants to do with the books, the voice croaks “Burn them”.Daniel keeps the book and searches for the truth and secrets that lie behind it and its author. Shadow of the Wind is a wonderfully written story with subtle complexities and layers, creating a blanket of chilling apprehension as you follow Daniel uncovering the good, the bad, and the ugly retribution surrounding Carax. The characters offer depth and range, and you’re not quite sure what intentions are genuine and where your sympathies will lie at the end. The hot, misty, atmospheric Barcelona is exceptionally well characterised and seems to seep through the skin, which adds to the mood of suspense and mystery.A masterpiece and one of my favourite books of all time. While the series is outstanding this first book is the crème de la crème. I would highly recommend this book.