"Every book, every volume you see here, has a soul. The soul of the person who wrote it and of those who read it and lived and dreamed with it."In post-civil war Barcelona, ten-year-old birthday boy, Daniel Sempere is taken by his father to a top-secret, labyrinthine library called 'The Cemetery of Forgotten Books' and is asked to select whichever one of the dusty publications calls out to him from an exhaustive succession of shelves.He chooses an obscure novel, The Shadow of the Wind written by the enigmatic Julián Carax, an author whose life and work is shrouded in dark mystery.Over time, the book awakens this socially awkward boy to fresh possibilities and new friendships in a city still handcuffed to its recent history. Daniel, himself, describes the novel thus: "It is a story of love, of hatred and of the dreams that live in the shadow of the wind."In the honeymoon period of my read I was already thinking it to be one of the best books I'd picked up in a very long time and, after a handful of chapters, I was wishing that Goodreads would allow 5-star-plus ratings for special books such as this.The author's character imagery is up there with Márquez and Rushdie (it has the comportment of magical realism, but both feet are set firmly in the realism camp). The story has heart and soul and it nobly champions the underdog in an unjust world. Look out for nasty piece of work, Chief Inspector Francisco Javier Fumero, he of the pencil moustache and greasy grin; very much the bête noire of the piece.Záfon's expressive prose and finespun storytelling held me in a dizzy state of veneration and had me purring in my armchair like a pampered pussycat.But, oh!Alas, damnation and gadzooks! Did you hear me? "Gadzooks," I said!! The author somehow snatches defeat from the jaws of victory by allowing his dazzling story to become bogged down by a warehouse load of wearisome narrative in the middle orders of the piece."Get on with it, Záfon!" I shouted.(He didn't hear me).And where's a book defibrillator when you need one? It's a real shame because this book is infused with brilliance; Carlos Ruiz Záfon is incontestably touched by greatness.In my humble opinion, this magical rites-of-passage/good-versus-evil sprawl of a novel would have easily merited that notional 5-star-plus rating, were it not for the drawn-out tedium of its meandering epicentre. Editing out a hundred or more pages would've done this a power of good.I'm still awarding it 4.5, rounded up to 5. Its sublimity outweighs its imperfections.And listen up, my Goodreads' brothers, sisters, funsters, pseuds, bibliophiles and savants.Daniel Sempere's book epiphany is one which will resonate with each and every one of you.For each of us, there is one book that has been waiting for us from before we were born.I wonder which one is yours? : )