THE EVERMORE DRINKING GAMEIt looks like you’ve picked up the Evermore Drinking Game, for whichever reason (but if it’s because you have an interest in reading Evermore I strongly advise against it, for your sanity’s sake). However, if you’re still not convinced to stay the hell away from this book, the Evermore Drinking Game is here to make your reading experience as enjoyable as possible (because trust me, you won’t find anything enjoyable in this book without it). The rules for the Evermore Drinking Game are simple: when you read any of the instances mentioned below when reading Evermore, you take a swig of anything. It could be alcohol (for the best results!); it could be water (sadly, with this option, you’ll still actually have some grasp of the story), coffee (but you’ll be as hyper as you’ve ever been before you reach the end of the game), or really any other beverage in your disposal. Let’s begin the game, shall we? Once again, when you read any of the following instances, take a swig. And go! - Whenever you roll your eyes, take a swig- Whenever you feel like taking a hammer to Evermore, take a swig (and maybe that hammer) Easy so far? Don’t worry – you won’t be saying that after long. - Whenever Ever (heh) is a complete and total idiot, take a swig (yikes)- Whenever someone uses a positive adjective when describing Damen, take a swig (preferably sexy, gorgeous, hot, smoking, or even combustible) - Whenever someone says “omigod”, take a swig (omigod you’re in trouble!) - Whenever Ever presses her lips, take a swig (good luck with that one, my friend) - Whenever another talent Damen has is revealed, take a swig (but Damen will probably swig better than you) - Whenever you find out something before Ever does, take a swig- Whenever Ever throws herself a pity party, take a swig (ya know, her family used to like parties...) - Whenever Ever dreams of Damen, take a swig - Whenever Damen and Ever declare their undying love for each other, take a swig- Whenever Riley is annoying, take a swig - Whenever you find a Twilight rip off reference, take a swig (man, I’m harsh!) - Whenever you feel the urge to run out the nearest window because you’re reading Evermore, take Cymbalta a swig - When (or if) you finish Evermore, take a swig, because you, my friend, conquered this monstrosityCongratulations! You’ve made it this far and finished the Evermore Drinking Game! (And if you haven’t that’s either because you’re too drunk to function and in intensive care, in the bathroom doing only god knows what, or dead.)Well, wasn’t this game enjoyable! If one thing’s for certain, it was more enjoyable than Evermore.