Is "middle grade urban fantasy" a thing? I read this in a collection of the first three novels in this series, titled Support Your Local Wizard and you have gots to see this cover art (embiggen as needed):This thing is exemplary of the aesthetic that Stranger Things draws from. I mean, that's basically Barb (RIP) lying on the floor. And those pleated pants! You may be able to see the troll pencil-topper on the right. To me the biggest issue is why they are wearing their running shoes inside the bedroom. The period aesthetic is all over the text too. Lotus Esprit, anyone? If you're still not clear on what period this book is from, just consider the dedication from the sequel:Heartfelt thanks go to Neil Harris and his erstwhile comrades at Commodore, who went crazy hooking up a desperate writer's computer to one of their printers, and who helped her hit her deadline.The kicker for me is this bizarrely liberal concept of bullying. Thirteen-year-old Nita (short for Juanita) is routinely beat up by the more popular girls, leaving her with black eyes, swollen knee joints from targeted stomping, and more. Her parents are, like, shrug, "whatchoo gonna do?". To me this is far beyond bullying, this is felony assault, and today I would hope that the parents are calling the police and suing the crap out of the assaulter's parents. Be Best, people. To avoid another such beating, Nita ducks into her favorite place, the library (yay!) where she comes across a book telling the reader how to be a wizard. She eventually decides it's not a joke, and after her first attempt to utilize her new knowledge, meets also-thirteen-year-old Kit (short for Christopher, everything was short for something in the 80's I guess) who is just a little bit ahead of her in his training, and in just one week they are ready to master cosmos- and reality-spanning forces in an effort to retrieve Nita's space pen. Okay, it's about more than that. It's a tough book to pin down for age appropriateness these days. It's middle grade-ish in appeal but teen-ish in comprehension. I imagine it would have resonated most strongly in its day with kids like the protagonists; kind, brainier than was socially acceptable at the time, and honest enough not to hide it. These are kids who know offhand how long it takes sunlight to reach the Earth. The book has lots of dated cosmology, some real terms and some invented for the book. The author's affection for her characters is evident. Nita and Kit are a good pairing. The story continues through several sequels which I will not be reading. It's a sweet and smart and caring book, but it is so specific to its era of publication that it could never be a classic. Kudos to whomever put this book facing out in an open space on my public library's SF/F shelf (catalogued in the adult section somehow), because that cover art is pure 80's gold.UPDATE 4/24/2020: I was surprised to find a copy of this book on my home shelf! I was straightening up the children's paperbacks shelf and there it was! It either came from a library book sale or from neighbors.