Shadow of the Torturer demands active participation from the reader. It is considered the beginning of Wolfe's crowning achievement, The Book of the New Sun. The reading experience is both challenging and rewarding, but should not be intimidating. Close reading does not have to be unpleasant reading. The manner of the storytelling matches the tale being told. Wolfe avoids info dumps. And thus the glimpse we perceive of his world is merely that, a galaxy peeped through a narrow aperture.In a far future, on planet Urth, a medieval society within a vast, uncharted realm operates a guild-centric dystopia under the enigmatic House Absolute within the confines of an area called The Citadel. Severian is our first-person narrator, a young apprentice torturer, who comes to question his place in the guild, shows a bizarre and disturbing form of mercy to one of his wards, and is exiled for the second half of the book. He then sets out to discover the missing pieces of the world his limited purview hid from him. Remnants of advanced tech are appropriated for the use of higher beings, and signs of alien creatures, languages, and civilizations abound, but never take center stage.Within this well-crafted setting there emerges the illusion of bottomless world building. But enough of Urth is revealed to us through suggestion to allow us to suspend disbelief, and to marvel at the depths of the unimaginable history which led up to this state of affairs, and to begin to unravel on our own the constituent elements existent past the edges defined in the text. There is everywhere the sense of a vast gulf of time. We are dealing with the fossils of a once-great planet, now in decline. The sun is dying, and the perspective offered by the story is from the lowest caste, rising up out of obscurity, to a grand destiny to encompass the cosmos.Severian is guided by female companions, stage by stage, out of naïveté and innate curiosity, making a few key decisions after they’ve thoroughly influenced his understanding of his surroundings. Often, he is as baffled by the observed 'magic' of his travails, as is the reader, and we can only intuit that there is still a wealth of explanation and implication to come. Severian is susceptible to the influence of others, but not always seduced or helpless. His first study of female leader and conduit for his awakening is Thecla, whom he regards with respect. She marks the turning point in his apprenticeship and the origin of his exile. Agia is his second guide outside of the guild, and Dorcas establishes a pattern in this mode, during the symbolic near-drowning scene late in the book. As he journeys through brothels, towns, Botanical Gardens, and comes to the walls encircling the Sanguinary Fields, confidence seems to blossom where fear had once resided.He is a disgraced torturer, who understands little of his true place in the world. He at many points becomes a parallel to religious figures, being tempted in turn, standing in for rites and trials, but a dichotomy exists in his character, due to his sexual desires and violent methods and reactions. This is a world built around violence, predicated on Old Testament-like prophecies, and subject to the judgment of those in power, who appear intimately in congress with the multifarious gods. Severian is adaptable, and we get the account third-hand. Severian’s retelling of his adventures are not always perfectly authentic, though they are detailed and consistent, piercing and biased. But G. W. explains in his afterward - a framing device the reader would do well to read first - that this is a translation of a document sent back in time, with many arcane words added as approximations to indefinite entities. The cogwheels of Fate, tending toward entropy, the discovery of the self, the initiation into mysteries of an alien world, all offer the reader much food for thought. Severian’s encounters provide a window onto the landscapes of a divergent universe, and through their very obscurity, take on a cyclical, timeless value.Keeping track of Urth's hierarchies, deities, and mythological allusions provides a literary puzzle for the astute reader, but the tale can be enjoyed by escapists uninterested in uncovering the religious imagery and historic references.The autarchy is a complex system, requiring study and not laid out plainly by the author. Resurrection and death is a cycle presented throughout the work. Many of the themes enlarge and carry forward into later volumes. Plot is not the motivating factor in this novel. Wolfe offers the reader as much as they are willing to invest in his project. His creations always yield greater treasures than are visible from the surface. His books must be excavated, and in so turning over the soil, they can be appreciated deeply, or easily consumed, but they will always be burned into my memory. The narrator’s charming outlook in the beginning eases us in. The oubliette appears almost idyllic in his eyes. But slowly, it dawns on the reader that this home is presented with an undercurrent of horror, of uncanny dread. It is also a chronicle of man's growth from childhood, of coming to regard the world with the respect it deserves, of exiting that self-serving solipsism of youth. We are made to witness the juxtapositions of these joys and sorrows against moral strangeness of the rituals of the cult-like torturer guild.In fantasy literature, nowhere else is it so abundantly clear that the human mind is capable of conceiving an infinite chain of causal relationships, ie. a microcosm so complete and refined as to dwarf the reality we inhabit.