RIP Gene Wolfe.For 38 years I was under the belief that I had read this book and just couldn't remember much about it.I got it from my school library in 1980. I know that much.I am now sure that this is the first time I've read the book and that back in 1980 I read maybe 10% of it, reaching the first horrific if rather dry (and all the more horrible for that) torture scene (basically the only memory I have of the book). I have always found torture, both in real life and in fiction, deeply disturbing. I guess that I read this one scene and assumed that there would be many more in store - the book is about a torturer after all. It turns out that my assumption was wrong and there are no more gruesome torture scenes.In a way this has echoes of my own debut where a good number of readers reached the early "off screen" rape and assumed (incorrectly) that there would be more. Some have even run with this false assumption and presented it as fact, describing that book as "full of unrelenting rape".So, yes a book about a young man raised in a guild of torturers.This is work of literary fiction as much as it is a fantasy book. The prose is powerful and styled in an archaic fashion with a great many $10 words and a number of invented words with classical roots. It left me with the impression that Wolfe had hit the thesaurus hard but with an erudite discrimination.I would describe the style as Joseph Conrad meets Charles Dickens.For the first third of the book the story has considerable momentum. We are learning about the torturers' guild and the world beyond their doors through the eyes of apprentice torturer, Severian. There is a growing dilemma as Severian becomes entangled with a woman who is imprisoned in the guild's tower and who may well be sentenced to torture (then death) in due course. Naturally this leads to mounting tension. We are also intrigued by Severian's chance involvement with the lead figure in some kind of civil revolt.As things come to a head Severian leaves the tower to commence a long journey. Oddly, it is when things start moving that the story loses momentum. The plot vanishes and we are led though a long series of vignettes. The events that follow Severian's departure appear largely random and disconnected. He encounters a variety of colourful characters and gets embroiled in what seems to be part of a large plot but turns out to be far more random and less significant. What saves the book from being dismissed as aimless is that the imagination on display combined with the intelligence of the writing and quality of the world building, constitute a good read on their own.The world of Urth and single vast city in which the book unrolls its story, have an unimaginably long history in which many civilisations have risen and fallen, and epochs have come and gone. The result is a rich mix of technology and decay, both social and physical. It is hard to tell where the present stands in terms of the heights of the world's technological mastery. Do the current inhabitants understand the technology they use? The story trickles along and ends in mid flow with many outstanding questions to lead you on to the next book should you feel you need to know the answers. Most of these questions centre on the world building. I want to know more about the leadership of this city/empire and about the conflict partly revealed at the start of the book.One thing that struck me as odd is the Severian seems to be an incredible rarity, i.e a traveling torturer, and yet everyone seems to recognise his profession from his garb.Additionally, and this may well be intentional, the contrast seems odd between an early scene where a housemaid is tortured for no obvious reason (I think her employer was accused of treason or some such), and near the end when a man murders nine people and Severian is employed to behead him (which, yes may require some skill but not a lifetime training in the art of torture) but the murderer isn't so much as beaten.Anyway, a book written in a slightly dry literary style but full of rich characters and great imagination. It kept me reading and I am glad to have read it, but on the other hand I never found myself emotionally engaged and wasn't convinced by any of Severian's attachments to the women he encounters. Join my Patreon Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes.