Once upon a time there was a silence that dreamed of becoming a song, and then I found you, and now everything is music.
This is one of the most beautifully written books I have ever read. I am always mesmerized by how much emotion a single word can carry and Laini Taylor has honed that skill to perfection. Her writing is truly divine. Every time I read one of her books I never fail to notice that she uses words so perfectly that not a single phrase could have been written any better. Every sentence seems near musical and not a single one is out of place. Words simple seem to do her bidding and I am forever in awe. Inconsequential of the characters, the plot, and the story, her writing is simply magical. This book and the last were both absolutely fantastic and are on my favorites list. The characters are beautifully written and I love every single one of them from this world to the next and back. Lazlo Strange is everything that's right in the world personified in one body. His character is one of my favorite things about this series and even though so much happens in this book and the last he maintains a central role in the story which I absolutely loved. Sarai, Sparrow, Feral, and Minya each have remarkably different personalities and watching them revolve around one another and now Lazlo is fascinating. We also see Eril-Fane, Azareen, Thyon Nero, Calixte, and Suheyla and all of them play amazing roles in this story however simple they might be. The story is exceptionally narrated. Every single part of the book contains so much emotion about love, loss, and heartbreak. If you think about it, the story is fundamentally very simple but the abundance of emotion that follows every instance is what makes the book so uniquely beautiful. Every character brings out more emotion from the person they’re standing next to and even when all we hear is the thoughts of one character the depth of emotion that is infused into it is unbelievable.This book reveals a lot more about the past of the godspawn and a few new characters are introduced in this world. We see so much more about Minya in terms of her character and the burden she bears and I loved the part she plays in this story. In this book, Laini Taylor switches between the story and characters that we already know and another story from this universe’s past. This story takes place before that of Lazlo and Sarai and watching this story collide with ours in the present is breathtaking.I loved every single sentence in this book and will miss this series dearly. I obviously give this book 5 stars and I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.