I’m not happy about writing this review. Contrary to popular opinion I don’t actually enjoy writing negative reviews, especially not of authors I sincerely admire. I think Laini Taylor is an unparalleled word builder capable of weaving together words in such a gorgeous tapestry the end result is almost blinding it’s so beautiful.But.C’mon we all knew there was gonna be a but.She doesn’t seem to know what to do with these worlds once they’re built. She doesn’t seem to have any stories to actually tell. It breaks my fantasy lover’s heart to say it but for all their exquisite, positively breathtaking, beauty there’s just nothing underneath to breathe life into the words.I think it took me awhile to work out what my issues are with Taylor exactly because she’s such a talented wordsmith. I was dazzled by these just astounding, gorgeous worlds she paints for her readers. It was all so vivid I didn’t even realize nothing was actually happening. But just as with the Daughter of Smoke and Bone series I’m left at the end of the Strange the Dreamer duology with the same feelings of looking at a very, very lovely paint by numbers picture. I think part of the problem is that Taylor seems to want to tell only this one kind of story. She seems to want to tell very simple stories about young people meeting and falling in love and dealing with mean parents who don’t understand them and coming out and figuring out their gender identities. This should have been a remarkable series. It looks absolutely beautiful. This dazzling, fantastically old city ruined by evil, ageless, all powerful gods who stole the young men and women of the city for their pleasure and wiped their memories once they were done with them should have been just the beginning. A young orphan with no name who journeys to find his destiny and answers about himself in the city is the stuff of epics. A beautiful hidden demi-goddess with the power to walk through dreams and sow nightmares just sounds amazing doesn’t it!? Instead it’s all we get. Things that sound like they’ll be amazing! Pretty wrapping paper hiding a copy of Twilight written by someone with a better grasp of metaphor and a gift for description.Let me repeat, there is nothing, absolutely nothing wrong with telling simple stories about growing up and finding yourself. Those stories are great and very important. What isn’t so great is making it seem (in this case) like the story is about a shape shifting spaceship and blue demi-gods with amazing powers and a city with no name and people dealing with years of enslavement is somehow important when really it’s just window dressing for the teenage romance.I just didn’t care about any of these characters. I couldn’t even keep their names straight most of the time. No one grows or changes, characters just decide to suddenly do things that make sense in terms of how plots work but never feel like they come from anywhere real. And I feel a little duped because I hung in there till the end hoping that something would suddenly hit me and I’d realize what the point was.But in the end I’m left with pretty, pretty pictures and not a whole lot else.