I'm a sloooow reader. Between February 19th and August 17th I read two books. Two.Then I picked up this book on Monday 17th and had it finished on Wednesday.The key difference was that the previous two books did not DEMAND my time. I gave it to them grudgingly in very small bursts when other diversions were denied to me. Taylor's writing though is so compelling I just can't stop reading it.The biggest ingredient in this paper-based crack is, for me, the prose. I shouldn't let my personal love of world-class word-smithing overshadow the fact that the story and the characters are also superb though.I'm not sure why it took me so long to get to this second (final) book after absolutely loving the first. Likely it was fear of being disappointed - a lack of faith that the story had interesting places to go. That fear was misplaced. Book 2 is full of novelty, imagination, and earned emotion.Like the eponymous hero of book 1 the narrative itself is constantly seeking the good in people and swerving perspective so that we can see it too. It's a feel-good book without being too in-your-face with it or saccharine, but it's also a feel-good book with very sharp edges and the constant threat of plunging into the abyss - and of course, not everybody's story ends well, or we wouldn't value those that do.Putting my critical hat on there is very little to say. I guess the "lots of people have a random power" idea has been and is being thoroughly explored in book/film for quite a while now. From the X-Men to The Boys, Umbrella Academy and Project Power we're used to the idea. But like all such things, the important part is the execution and Taylor does that with such heart and skill that you will forgive the Human Torch and Ice Man analogues. In the end some resolutions involve a complex stacking and meshing of powers that could be pleasingly devious or overly contrived depending on your point of view. But I loved it and I think most readers will.Go try the first book and pause only for a breath before diving into the next because it's just as good. Join my Patreon Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes.