"I swear by the Almighty, Mothermaid, and all Seven Martyrs," Aaron sighed, "I've never heard a tale half so strange as this."I somehow managed to power through this sprawling drag of a novel that was basically nothing much except blood, gore, weird sexual descriptions, and so-called "humor" that took 700+ pages to really do not much of anything. Which is really hilarious when the author thinks it's a stunning masterpiece (and literally threw a fit on Instagram when this wasn't chosen for GR Choice) when, at the core, this book comes off as written by a creepy, privileged man who had a bad religious background that made him very angry and gets off on writing voyeuristic sexual scenes about LGBTQ+ characters . . . a pair of which are teenaged girls . . . 
but also has a masturbation fixation??
 Can't believe V.E. Schwab did a cover blurb for THIS.And look, I absolutely knew what I was getting into when I picked this book up. I came into this to roast it and see JUST how bad it might get, considering the problematic (and really just not that great) content and writing of his previous books. And when I say I expected it to be BAD, well, it really didn't disappoint me . . .⚠️⚠️ ALL THE SPOILERS START NOW ⚠️⚠️'The vampire's eyes widened in alarm. "Scandalous.""Mock if you will.""Merci, I believe I shall."I would have maybe appreciated this book better if it didn't take itself so seriously. Instead, there was a machine-gun barrage of gross and unnecessary innuendos and rambling soliloquy rants that belong in a blog post or notes app screenshots post. There was so much voyeuristic sexual content along with a problematic male gaze/view, homophobia and related slurs, misogyny not-so-stealthily hidden towards "strong women" characters, choppy writing, forced humor and way, way too much banter. This was peak Jay Kristoff stuffed into this book and, if I hadn't cemented myself into finishing it and writing this review, I would have dropped this book in the first chapter. And, again, I just find it hilarious how serious this book tried to take itself, because if it was a satire or a comedy?? Absolutely here for it. I mean, how can you have something like this—'spirits that strong will burn like a trencherman’s fart in a candleshop'—and other various phrases and expect this book to be viewed as something edgy, something dark, something just so gruesome and unique and whining about how your magnificent "magnum opus" didn't make GR Choice selection blah blah WHEN YOU WRITE LIKE THIS???Anyways, author issues and bad writing aside . . . This really wasn't a good story."They made a lion of you. They made a legend. A foe even the Forever King learned to fear."Gabriel What's-His-Face has risen up and given challenge to Aelin for the amount of self-confidence affirmations and introductions because I bet that almost HALF this book could have been done away with if all of the "I'm a lion" sentences had been scrapped. Besides that, he's a Speshul Boy™️ from a conveniently-forgotten bloodline (still wasn't explained how DEAD creatures were able to procreate okay) and rises up as a super famous warrior BEFORE HE'S EVEN TWENTY like okay so that happened. But don't forget all the heavy religious overtones!! And settings!! Actually, it's totally okay if you forget stuff because the book reminds you again and again of all the Very Important Things™️ every twenty pages. It's all of that which makes the book so large and FOREVER to make the points it attempted to make near the end of it all.I'm also gonna talk about the language in here, and by language I mean not-English and how the author doesn't seem to get that YOU CAN JUST WRITE IN ENGLISH IT'S OKAY using 'oui', 'merci', and 'ma famille' instead of yes, thanks, and my family (gonna ignore the halfway-started use of KEN for KNOW/KNOWING) okay! 
It doesn't add multicultural flavor; it just makes you look like an appropriator and looks dumb when used like that.
 I'll forgive it on Wattpad but not in a book published by a major company nor from an author who should really know better.Is this review rambling and confusing and bouncing all over the place? Yes, of course it is, I'm just matching the vibe of the book okay."Our dead stay dead, Silversaint. Yours rise against you."There is a reason I rated this book two stars and 
one star is for the glimmers of potential I caught out of the mess and appreciated
. If this concept was written by ANYONE ELSE that wouldn't be throwing sex jokes and drunken rages about God at the reader on almost every page . . . I would have liked it. The vampires in here are VAMPIRES and I can applaud how they're not romanticized or humanized in here—they're cold-blooded ancients out for domination and, unfortunately for humanity, they've got the strength to do that.'Monsters rising from beds of cold earth and slipping on the façade that they were something close to human.'But, that other star just might be for Jean-Francois and how the author's tendency to write nothing but banter or snarling or bad fucking just FIT for that one character. If Gabe is the author self-insert then the classy, dandy vampire historian Jean-Francois is MY self-insert and, no, you can't change my mind. Which just goes to show that, 
if done in the right angle and chilling out on the "your mama" jokes and overuse of variables on the word "fuck" . . . this style CAN work.
 It just doesn't work here."Fuck me," I breathed."The Testaments name sodomy a deadly sin, so I'd rather not." Talon offered a brief smile. "But you're very pretty, de León, and I appreciate the offer."This is one of the most blaringly obvious parts of the book that is written with the tone of "ha ha ha this is just how soldiers word spar with each other" and, before anyone pops up to say that this said by a Bad Guy™️ . . . it's not the ONLY homophobic/LGBTQ+ unfriendly thing in this book. It's just one of the first, followed by a very graphic and hateful outing & treatment of a gay pairing who thankfully doesn't die BUT is still horribly mistreated. That didn't need to happen and I don't care if they are now living happily in their own fort. Because 
the way this author writes queer characters is done in a way like it's just pandering to diversity check-boxes for sales and "look I'm not homophobic I have gay characters" than actually giving representation
 . . . but is also feeding a kink, especially with all the voyeurism attached to it.But the straight relationship isn't even written that well either?? It's all over-the-top flowery euphemisms and ''oooh this is sinful isn't it??" that makes all Kindle Unlimited romance books shine a little stronger in comparison. I've read better sex scenes than the cismale viewpoint I got here and read books that did vampire sex kinks better justice ¯\_(ツ)_/¯Moving on!!!"If it hadn’t been for God’s insistence on shoving his prick into my earhole at every opportunity, we’d have been gold as a sailor’s best teeth.""Our good initiate will eventually figure out that your breasts, whilst magnificent, aren't any real impediment to combat prowess.""It's not your todger, you can take your hand off it occasionally."Jay Kristoff writing these things like:If half the book could have been pared down by scrapping Gabe's rants and reminding everyone "I've got a lion in these veins bruh" then the other half of this book could be tossed by getting rid of ALL the genitalia references, innuendo, stupid one-liners, attempts at raunchy quips every other sentence, and also sentences that just plain didn't make sense and read . . . weird. Just read my highlights & reading updates to see more of the hilarity that was this writing and story. I truly think this is my last Kristoff book because I'm done seeing if he's gonna write any better. I'm done with this author shoving his ideas of what makes a great novel down reader's throats and expecting them to shut up and take it and LIKE it . . . especially when IT'S NOT THAT FANTASTIC OF A STORY. If anything, this is average fantasy just done up in a bit more gore and violence.So, the rundown, as if this giant review wasn't enough already:—there's better books out there—if you want gore and bad sex jokes on every page, you'll like this book—horses die left and right and it's awful—there is barely any plot just one-liners and rants about how much Gabe (and probably Kristoff) hate God—creepy gay voyeurism isn't cool no matter how times you try to write as if it is—the cover and illustrations are too powerful and well-done to belong to a book like thisAnd that's it!! I can rant as much as Gabe about this book, I will not hesitate to defend my opinion on this rather bad book, and now I'm off to read better things and count this as my farewell to Jay Kristoff's works. May he somehow miraculously become a better writer.pre-review:book twitter: Kristoff has been revealed to be highly problematic, misogynistic, and other long words that boil down to someone being an assholeme: I mean, have you READ his books??? it's all there ¯\_(ツ)_/¯but yes I'm still going to read this and rip it to shreds okay allow me my saltiness)