Five 'blood drenched' stars, for a Vampire tale in the Empire of the Undead.“From holy cup comes holy light;The faithful hand sets world aright.And in the Seven Martyrs’ sight,Mere man shall end this endless night.”I am about to tell you a story that was hundreds of years in the making, a story of deadly vows and death, of love, loss, fate and promise, as we are ‘sucked’ into a supernatural and gothic world of vampires and demons, as Jay Kristoff creates a lurid theatre of evil to reveal his latest masterpiece. That is appropriately titled ‘The Empire of the Vampire’. So please lend me your throat… I mean ear. Of course, I meant ear. Because this story is gripping, scheming, and spine chilling and just ‘Bloody’ brilliant.The PlotGabriel de Leon recalls the love, euphoria and peace he felt, in the arms of the woman he had promised his heart to, until the unthinkable happens and he sinks his teeth into her body, drinking the life from her and in that moment changing his own because “…he knew the colour of want. And that colour was red.”, But it also revealed who he was, and so is claimed by the ‘Empire and San Michon’ where he becomes defender of the empire, and keeper of the holy faith… the empires sword, their shield and their hope’. But all of it to save him from utter damnation, because he is a vampire.However, failing to keep his oath, he fathers a child, and disobeys his orders which sets him against the Forever King. But with the death of his wife and child and with it every desperate notion, every bleak fantasy of a life in this new world, Gabriel embarks on a path of revenge himself, “.a time for killing, a time for blood, a time for rage. And in the moment, he decided…..a time to close your eyes and become the thing hell wants you to be. And so. I did”Review and CommentsThe sub plots are too numerous to list suffice to say this is one holy mass of intrigue that captivates and sucks you in through 700 pages of dark fantasy, supernatural love and promise, and evil that is unrelenting and penetrating. But with a difference, as Kristoff introduces us to modern vampire-ology which he has taken to a whole new level. Instead of the blood sucking, toe curling stories of vampires of the past, Jay introduces us to a new breed of vampire, a new concept, a new image and a new way to get lost in the tale of the other world.I have not read many vampire stories to compare but I do know when I am hooked into an incredible and mind-blowing story that offers everything, an epic tale of forbidden love, a fantastic complex web that offers the thrill and dark menace of vampire-lore, superb world-building that lays the foundation for multi-layered plots that keep the twists, revelations and power struggles coming. A fiercely accomplished book that ‘sucks’ you in until the last page. It may feel long with a lot sub plots, some of them didn’t add much and could have been left out but overall the 'Empire of the Vampire' is bold, complex, intricate and ‘Bloody’ brilliant.Some of my favourite quotes from the book:“That’s the awful part about it: the worst days of your life start out just like any other”“In justice and hope, no hope there be, In mercy and bliss, no bliss for thee, In death and truth, no truth I see, Through blood and fire, now dance with me.”“When there’s little you can do, do what little you can”“The greatest horrors forge the greatest heroes"“It matters not what you hold faith in, but you must hold faith in something”