Laini Taylor has developed into one of my favourite authors over the years so I always go into her books with massively high expectations. The good news is that if anything Muse of Nightmares exceeded my super high expectations and was everything I was wishing it would be and then a bit more! This series is YA fantasy romance done to perfection! The story is fantastic and packed full of likeable and interesting characters and imaginative magic all told in a beautiful and engaging writing style.The story was super fun in this second instalment. The battle lines are drawn as the people of Weep have learned of the presence of the godspawn in the magical floating city above their town and react with the horror one might expect to the news that offspring of the tyrannical Gods have survived. Minya, after years trapped in the Citadel finally has the means to exact the vengeance she has sought since the night of the Carnage/Liberation. We also got a new story arc thrown into the mix to spice things up and give us all those answers to just who were the Mesarthim. The story was great. It had action, mystery, romance, magic, and optimism, but also a real undercurrent of tension and tragedy that made the whole story utterly compelling and addictive. The best thing about this series for me is the characters. It is so easy to empathise with and understand the motivations of pretty much every single character on all sides of the conflict and that is what makes the story such an emotionally compelling read. Every single POV was a good one and every singe character was interesting to follow! I love it when a story has the perfect balance and this one really delivered that for me. One of my favourite reads of all 2018 and this fantastic instalment confirmed the Strange the Dreamer series as one of my all time favourites of any genre! The only flaw is that this was the last book in the series. I want more from these characters and this world! Rating: 5 stars.Audio Note: I was not always a fan of Steve West but he has grown on me in recent years and I think his performance of this one was fantastic. He did a great job with the character voices and was top notch with his voice acting. He really made me feel the emotion and the drama in the scenes!