❝'I am the Lord of Mischief, the Ruler Underground,' he said, mismatched eyes glinting. 'I am wildness and madness made flesh. You’re just a girl'—he smiled, and the tips of his teeth were sharp—'and I am the wolf in the woods.'❞Thank you to St. Martin's Press for providing me with an ARC!Wintersong was a work of art. S Jae-Jones's writing was breathtakingly poetic and I found myself whisked away by the first page. The storyline was seductive, passionate, and heartbreakingly beautiful. In a way, it reminded me a bit of Rosamund Hodge's Cruel Beauty and Roshani Chokshi's The Star-Touched Queen. Wintersong was a retelling of Labyrinth but I also found pieces of Beauty and the Beast weaved into the story. The Beast, in this case, took form as the infamous Goblin King and Elisabeth as our Beauty. Beauty not in appearance but in her music.Although Wintersong has its ups, just like any book, it does have its downsides. The pacing of the story moves very slowly, which proves to be more of a con to a reader who loves action-driven storylines. The plot starts off strong but the momentum dwindles and slows down a bit about halfway through up until the very end. Wintersong is no action-filled fantasy so don't expect there to be any sword fights or magical spells.One thing I enjoyed was the fact that our heroine, Liesl, wasn't the typical beautiful, jaw-dropping, beauty that we're accustomed to seeing in almost every young adult novel. HOWEVER, it did get overdone a tad bit too much. We just kept hearing about how plain she was throughout the whole book which was just as bad as hearing how beautiful these YA characters are.I expected to be swept away by The Goblin King, and for the most part I was. He wasn't as swoonworthy as I was hoping he would be but he turned out alright. He was probably the one that saved this whole story for me. I was just so intrigued with his character and I really wanted to know more about him and the person he was before he turned into the ruler of the Underground. The scene in the chapel during his prayers absolutely broke my heart. Even though he was one of the main characters of the story, I really wish we could've gotten more out of him.If you are a huge Labyrinth fan such as myself, I do suggest reading Wintersong without having any expectations that it would closely resemble the book. I think having that expectation played a part in my disappointment on how the story played out. It maybe a retelling but it is a very loose retelling. The only similarities I found were a few close lines from the film and the concept of the male character being named The Goblin King. Other than that, it's a completely different story.Wintersong was good, but definitely not as great as I had hoped it would be in the end. The ending wasn't your typical happily ever after, if even, and sadly I was a bit unsatisfied as far as endings went. All in all, I believe that Wintersong is a great book for fans who enjoyed The Star-Touched Queen or Cruel Beauty. Unfortunately, I wasn't a huge fan of either of those books so Wintersong was probably not the book for me. I do favor Wintersong above the other two. I still loved the concept of the story and the romance between Elisabeth and The Goblin King. And I really looking forward to seeing what the companion novel will be about.