3.75My most anticipated read of the year was on its way to becoming my most disappointing.The Mistborn series is one of my favourites. The Final Empire is still one of the best Fantasy books I've read to date. After being blown away by the original trilogy, I was super excited to get to 2nd Era.Are they as good as 1st Era? In my opinion, no. Not that they aren't great, but I very much like philosophical themes in books I read, and, even though 2nd Era has its moments, it is not as heavy or thought provoking. Which is fine, because I don't think it was trying to be that. They are light and fun books with great character interactions. Never really hitting that five star mark for me, but they have consistently been enjoyable reads.Then the epilogue in Bands of Mourning happened.So, naturally, I was unbelievably excited for TLM. It seemed to be a big book in the Cosmere. So why was it almost disappointing? A couple reasons.For starters, it was slow. I don't mean The Godfather slow, I mean it felt like nothing happened for the first 150 pages. Like, they established what was happening, then there was just a bunch of info-dumps and meaningless character interactions. A lot of things that were explained, that I already knew, and we went over them multiple times. Not something I have ever noticed in a Brandon Sanderson book.After that, it picked up a little. But at the same time, I found Marasi's POV to bore me. I actually don't like her as a character. In my opinion she is one of, if not, Brandons worst MC. For some reason, she irritates me at times, and is pretty bland. So anytime she was in the story, I always felt like I'd rather be reading about Wax, Wayne or Steris. That might be a me problem honestly, but she was featured a lot in this book.Usually, Wayne is amazing. He is super funny, but in this book, a lot of his humour was very juvenile and childish, even for him. They sounded like something my little cousin would say, and that made it cringe-y sometimes. Still was funny, but not as much as in previous books.Steris is awesome, she is probably my favourite female Sanderson character. She's so unique and unlike anything character I've read before.Wax is cool, if a bit boring. I don't not like him but he certainly isn't a favourite.So I'm halfway through the book, thinking "Oh man, this so disappointing."Until the last 150 pages, which is arguably one of the greatest Sanderlanches I've ever read.I read almost all of it in one siting, I couldn't rip the book away, and every time I did, I just wanted to go right back. The stakes were so high, some of the highest they have ever been in the Mistborn series, and I didn't notice the gravity of the situation until that last 20%. The way Brandon wrote it was incredible, absolutely amazing. Seriously. I'm tempted to just read it again, even though he did something (if you know, you know) that I'm still salty about, but he handled it superbly, to the point where I was kind of happy.But another disappointment I had was the Cosmere references. I thought they'd be better, honestly. Besides that certain group of people, the others felt pretty pedestrian. I guess that might be what Brandon wanted to do, but I don't know.And that thing about Secret History didn't really make much a of a big difference in this book. It was a bit of a let down, honestly, how little we saw of that character. I though he would be a bigger plot line.So now, I can't say I'm too disappointed. There were some things that I didn't love, but do think this is a worthy addition to both Mistborn and the Cosmere. Definitely a must-read for any Cosmere fans, because big things happen in the Epilogue (or, rather, are going to lead to big things).*STOP HERE UNLESS YOU'VE READ THE LOST METAL*Okay, I wanna hear everyones opinion; who is Moonlight?