Is this Sanderson’s best writing to date?The short answer to that question is.. no. But that is not to say that this isn’t a good conclusion. Actually, I really enjoyed this book, but oh boy, there is so much to say. This will be 100% percent spoiler free.I’ve had quite a rocky relationship with Mistborn Era 2. I read the first two books, Alloy of Law and Shadow of Self, earlier this year and didn’t particularly enjoy them that much. I didn’t think they were terrible, but I didn’t feel very invested, so I took a break from this series. Wait three months, and I am in the mood to give this Era 2 a fair second chance. I started from Alloy of Law again, read that one, and then instantly picked up Shadow of Self and Bands of Mourning, and this time around, I actually really enjoyed it. My expectations were set appropriately when I picked up this series for the second time, and it was like a new reading experience. I started caring for the characters, the plot, the writing style and overall, it was a great reading experience. Not as good as Mistborn Era 1 or anything like that, but nonetheless, worth reading.So, having gone on this back-and-forth journey with Mistborn Era 2, what did I think about The Lost Metal? This was a fascinating read because I am not caught up with all the books in the cosmere. I have read almost everything in the Cosmere except books 2 to 4 in the Stormlight Archive and Arcanum Unbounded. Let’s answer the big question. Is this a Cosmere filled book? Are we finally seeing Sanderson starting to pull stuff and worlds together? The answer to that is...YES. I won’t go into specifics, but there are some pretty major cosmere tie-ins, especially in the latter half of this book. Other worlds are mentioned, and more stuff like that, so if you are a HUGE Cosmere fanatic, you will probably love this book. The Lost Metal is an important book for the cosmere. No doubt about it.And that leads to the other question. Do you have to have read all the cosmere books to enjoy The Lost Metal? The answer to that is...no. While there are many cosmere references, they are not the most important thing about this book. Moreover, you are not supposed to understand all of these references. It is clear that Sanderson is setting up Mistborn Era 3 by hinting at different thingsBut let’s go a bit more into detail. Let’s talk about why I think this is an excellent book and why I don’t think this is Sanderson’s best work to date.Firstly, why is it good? Let’s start with the characters.Sanderson delivers some incredibly satisfying conclusions to these characters’ arcs. This cast of characters you’ve followed on this big journey are coming to the end of this massive conflict, and I think that Sanderson delivers on giving readers a satisfying conclusion to their journey. The characters’ growth, arcs and conclusions are satisfying, which is excellent news.Secondly, the pacing is spot on. You constantly move between the different POVs, and the short chapters make this feel like a very quick read, But this is actually the longest Mistborn Era 2 book at 500 pages. The plot thickens and has many turns and twists, and the action is almost non-stop.Thirdly, if you are a cosmere fanatic, you will appreciate this book because there are so many references and tie-ins happening in this book. Fans will make theories and try their best to guess what this book means for the cosmere world going forward, which is always fun. Fourthly, a bit of different praise, but the epilogue of this book is amazing. Every chapter in this book is, on average, less than ten pages, but the epilogue is 35 pages and split into shorter chapters. After the main event in this book, we get to see the aftermath and how the events in this book have impacted various characters across a period of 2 years! Sanderson brilliantly wraps up some of these characters’ arcs and also sets up a lot of things for Mistborn Era 3 and potentially even Mistborn Era 4.Fifthly, this book has a phenomenal Sanderson Avalanche or Sanderlanche, as some people call it. Everything comes together at the end, and the last act is filled with incredible character moments, twists and turns, and lots of action. I read the last 120 pages in one sitting because I couldn’t put it down because I needed to know what would happen.Sixth and lastly, this book wraps up Era 2 really nicely. While reading this series, the first three books might feel a bit episodic. However, this book shows that all the books in this series are incredibly important. Things that happen in Alloy of Law are essential for how the events in The Lost Metal unfold, and I appreciate that.However, this is not Sanderson’s best work-to-date, and I would even say that this is not even the best Mistborn Era 2 book to date, albeit it is good. So let’s talk about what held this book back from being a 5 out of 5 stars read for me.The Lost Metal is an excellent book for fans of the cosmere and people that love Mistborn Era 2, but it is not perfect, and here is why. Almost all of Sanderson’s previous series have evident beginnings and ends, and it is usually a very self-contained story. In this one, you have a satisfying conclusion to the main characters’ arcs, but this last book does not feel like a proper, proper conclusion if that makes sense. Sanderson sets up some things that will be important for later series, and to be able to make that happen, Sanderson has to introduce a sub-plot that didn’t feel 100% as it belonged in this book. Some readers might not agree with this point here, but I didn’t feel like the plot was as tight as Shadow of Self and Bands of Mourning.In conclusion, The Lost Metal has lots of great character moments, excellent pacing and an overall satisfying conclusion. The plot just didn’t feel as tightknit as some of Sanderson’s other books, but overall, I had a wonderful time reading this book.Thank you to Gollancz for a physical copy in exchange for an honest review!4 / 5 stars