5 starsA magical, amazing start to a fantasy series. I could not get enough of Amari and her adventures! A hidden magical society dedicated to keeping the magical beings of the world hidden from us? Yes. Perfect for us fans of Nevermoor, Keeper of the Lost Cities, and more. Main character: ★★★★★Magical world: ★★★★★Plot/Pacing: ★★★★★Setup for series: perfect, I am hooked!Amari's older brother, Quinton Peters, has been missing for months. The police tell her and her mother that Quinton must have fallen in with "the bad crowd" and wasn't employed in any legal capacity. The color of his skin seems to be their only justification for their "solve." But Amari knows that can't be right—Quinton won all of his scholarships, attended a prestigious leadership summer camp, and shows up to her mother's low income apartment complex with money and presents all the time. So when Quinton disappears, Amari vows to find out the truth. The real truth. A ticking briefcase in Quinton's closet changes the game. All the sudden, Amari is faced with an unbelievable fact: Quinton worked for a hidden magical society. Wait, what? With a note of recommendation from Quinton in Amari's pocket and some instructions for an interview, Amari shows up for the strangest thing in her life. Turns out Quinton pulled some strings to get Amari into the same "leadership camp" that he attended each summer. The camp that was actually a high-stakes magical training program. And Amari's been formally invited to tryout for her own place in the society. Now down the rabbit hole, Amari quickly realizes that she's not the only one who loved Quinton and is looking for him—the entire Bureau of Supernatural Affairs is looking. Quinton was their star agent and he disappeared with his partner in a deadly chase. If Amari can survive her summer tryouts and be selected by the Junior Agent training program, then she's one step closer to finding out the truth about what happened to her brother. But Quinton isn't the only Peters sibling with some standout talent. Just what, exactly, qualifies Amari to be trained in the magical arts? No one, especially not Amari, is ready for the answer.Y'ALL. This was such a great fantasy debut! I could not stop reading it—all of our favorite tropes were here, but given a fair few fresh twists. Magical schooling, deadly stakes, a mystery, secret coverups, magicians, magical beings, humor, and MORE. I can't describe all of the elements, but trust me, they're present. Separate from the immediate appeal of the magical setup was Amari herself. Amari was a fantastic character to follow. Her heart, her love for her brother, and her experiences as a young Black girl realizing that the obstacles facing her in the real world do not magically disappear once she's been whisked away really hit me in the feels. She's a strong protagonist and she's here on a mission. But will she learn how to blossom and grow along the way? Agh. I cannot wait to grow with Amari in later installments. She's here to rock the world. Blog | Instagram