I'm way behind in my reviews, but I was positive I posted this once already. Or not, I guess!I've self-imposed a theme for my choices in the book club I belong to. For me to choose one book, without any guidance and very few restrictions? Out of ALL the books? Bah! Impossible.So I gave myself a theme (a broad theme) and the theme was 'Books about Books'. Library of the Unwritten was my November 2019 pick.There is just something about Books about Books that seems...I don't know...extra magical to me, no matter what genre they fall into. Library of the Unwritten – in theory, at least – checks all of my happy boxes: a library that houses all of the unwritten stories – living ideas that were never manifested – housed and full of created power in Hell; Stories so anxious to be told that they try (and sometimes succeed) to manifest themselves; An endless, ever-changing library with a resourceful librarian and a spunky assistant; A quest through Heaven, Earth and multiple Afterlives? All of it sounds like an intriguing heap of fun!It was. Tons of fun. Librarian Claire – fiercely protective of the books (and beings) under her care and taking her responsibilities very seriously – must journey with a hapless young demon, her Muse assistant and an errant manifest Hero to retrieve and protect a mysteriously powerful piece of writing. Standing in her way are angels of Heaven, scheming denizens of Hell, and all of the baggage that she herself carries.I honestly loved all of the individual elements of this book, but less so the way it all came together. Everything seemed so condensed, and it left me with so many questions.In the first part of the story, for example, we meet Claire – a human soul who has chosen as her punishment in Hell to work in the titular Library. We meet her assistant Verity, who was fired from her function as a Muse and is making a new start in the Library. And we meet Leto, the young messenger demon with spotty memories who, after bringing notice from Satan that an Unwritten Character has gotten free of its book and escaped to Earth, gets caught up in the resulting hunt.As a reader, I could have spent a full novel meeting these three dynamic characters, learning about the Library and Hell, and going along on this initial task to find and recover Hero, the escapee, ideally before the Unwritten character can track down his author on Earth. Instead, we are hurriedly propelled into the rest of the underwhelming plot, and whisked into a tornado of new characters and multiple settings, all of which could have benefited so much from some space to breathe and be developed themselves.This is meant to be half criticism, half praise. Indeed, wanting to spend more time in an author's creation is obviously a compliment! But having covered so much ground with such epic repercussions, I find myself wondering if Hackwith has left themself any place to go. I suppose I look forward to finding out.