(2022: Re-read via recently released GraphicAudio!)
“I only ask one thing.” “What’s that?” “When you fall to your death, do so quietly.”
 This really sums up the relationship between our new partners in crime (literally), Royce and Hadrian. The two can’t stand each other and understandably so as they could not be any more different. Forced by a mutual acquaintance to work together (for a reason I cannot reveal; just know there is a deeper meaning behind it), this book explores the beginning of what will be a long and true friendship as we see it in the Riyria Revelations, to which the Riyria Chronicles (this series) are the prequel.As the author himself states in the preface, this series does not include an arc spanning several books with a big finale at the end, but will consist of stand-alones. And what can I say? I’m so glad to see more of Royce and Hadrian and I enjoyed the heck out of their story; also because of the many hidden gems you will only appreciate if you‘ve read the Revelations before – which I strongly recommend.We encounter Hadrian as he returns to his home country following his father‘s death. He left home aged 15, dissatisfied that his father had trained him to be the best worrier alive (literally!), only for him to live in a tiny town. He is determined to win accolades as a warrior and succeeds, only to realize the cost of all the senseless killing once he learns of his father‘s death.
“Hadrian had left home to see the world and make a name for himself. He set out to be a hero, to right wrongs, save maidens, slay dragons. Instead he became a butcher, a killer.”
He is also an idealist who believes people are inherently honorable, good and trustworthy and clearly needs to see the real world as it is.Enter Arcadius, an old friend of his father‘s, with a message from his late father and a job offer: help Royce, an ex-assassin, who is also looking for a new purpose, steal a book under ridiculous circumstances in the hope that two of them will “complete” each other; as in Royce will temper Hadrian’s idealism and Hadrian will soften Royce’s unfeeling, often cruel nature which is the product of his past:
“He‘s like a pup of a renowned hunting dog who’s been beaten badly by every master he‘s had. He’s a gem worthy of a little work, but he‘ll test you - he’ll test you a lot. Royce doesn’t make friends easily and he doesn’t make it easy to be his friend. Don’t get angry. That’s what he’s looking for. That’s what he expects. He’ll try to drive you away, but you’ll fool him. Listen to him. Trust him. That’s what he won’t expect. It won’t be easy. You’ll have to be very patient. But if you are, you’ll make a friend for life – the kind that will walk unarmed into the jaws of a dragon if you asked him to.”
The book follows not only Hadrian‘s POV but also Gwen‘s, a seer and now a prostitute, who was told by her dying mother to wait for an elusive “him”. She endures A LOT: cruelty by men, discrimination because of being a foreigner in the North, and the uncertainty of when/if “he” will come. But she prevails and proves to be both clever and compassionate. At first I was dismayed to see we get her POV instead of more of Hadrian’s or Royce’s (we don’t get his until 71% in, which admittedly adds to the enigma that is him), but her storyline is entirely captivating and her character has become one of my faves.I also loved that her POV had a “Pretty Woman” moment – being turned away at a shop and seeing the attendant‘s reaction when they come back with money.Final verdict: A fabulous start to this series! Don’t miss out on these great characters and their story!

The Riyria Chronicles

1. The Crown Tower – 5 stars 2. The Rose and the Thorn – 5 stars3. The Death of Dulgath (TBD)4. The Disappearance of Winter’s Daughter (TBD)5. Drumindor (to be released)To be read BEFORE the Chronicles:

Riyria Revelations

1. The Crown Conspiracy – 3.75 stars2. Avempartha – 4.5 stars3. Nyphron Rising – 5 stars4. The Emerald Storm – 4.5 stars5. Wintertide – 5 stars6. Percepliquis – 5 stars