All the stars *****Royce and Hadrian are my favorite duo in the fantasy world. I say this without any trace of doubt at all. MJS could write 30 books about these two unlikely Heroes and I would happily devour them with glee. And after reading The Crown Tower, this installment will take it's rightful place on my favorites shelf.Michael J. Sullivan has a way of telling a story that just really connects with me. He doesn't make it complicated or try to do anything that hasn't been done before, but I can just relate with his characters and writing style. I feel like if I come home from a bad day at work, I can open up a Riyria book and everything just floats away. Yes! That kind of feeling. Not many authors do that for me, but MJS certainly does.The Crown Tower tells the story of how the Riyria duo came to be. The event this book is named after is spoken of several time in the Riyria Revelations books, but that is nothing compared to reading the actual tale. While this book was definitely more about Hadrian than Royce, I was, at first, a little surprised that Gwen got so much page time. Her story arc was just as good as Hadrians and maybe even more important to the overall outcome. She made it complete and really brought it all full circle.There are parts in the Revelations series that refer to when Royce and Hadrian first teamed up, but to read about it was entertaining and bittersweet knowing how they end up. The guys really are opposites and view the world completely different. 

"You were right about the swords," Royce said. "You really do need three.""You sound drunk.""I feel drunk - and I hate being drunk. Nothing works the way it's supposed to. And it makes me act stupid....like you.""You're aware I'm in the process of trying to save your life, right?""What part of stupid don't you understand?"

I can't rave about the Riyria books or Michael J. Sullivan's writing enough, but I will stop here and just say simply READ THEM. You won't be disappointed. MJS is an awesome storyteller. I myself am moving on to The Rose and The Thorne immediately.