A great BR with amazing GR dwellers, Craig and Alex :)
"All I wanted was to live—I’d forgotten everything else. A clod of dirt doesn’t have dreams. A bit of broken stone doesn’t understand hope. Each morning, all I wanted was to see the next dawn. But you changed that."
When I finished Riyria Revelations, I was so eager to meet the characters again and dived into Riyria Chronicles with pleasure :) If you have, like me, read Michael J. Sullivan’s Riyria Revelations series already, you’ll know that Hadrian and Royce, the great partners, weren’t always the perfect team we met and liked. Now at last, in the “Crown Tower” I got an opportunity to know all the nuances in the backstory of the great Riyria. “The Crown Tower” starts The Riyria Chronicles in a compelling way.For the new readers, this book will be a great fantasy read, with adventures, engaging action and fights, great presentation of two main male characters and one amazing female in the lead. For the Riyria old-timers this will be a thrilling chance to dive into Hadrian and Royce’s first ever job as partners and of course this book will show how these two quite different men became a great team. Characters: What I loved the most is that this book is concentrated not only upon Hadrian and Royce, but also Gwen, who, after this book, is worth my fascination as a strong female character and great personality.  Of course, I met these characters before, but in Revelations they weren’t so fully fleshed out as I felt they were in “Crown Tower”. As in previous books, Hadrian’s and Royce’s interaction is great, funny and enjoyable to read, adding more fun that it’s only the beginning of their bromance. 
“My name is Hadrian Blackwater.”“Congratulations.” The reply was as cold as the wind that carried it.“Uh … what’s yours?”The man turned away. “Leave me alone.”
The first shock that I experienced while reading this book is that there’s a clear difference between Royce and Hadrian that we meet here and in Revelations– in “The Crown Tower” they’re young and more inexperienced. Lol, just reading the first chapter I found out that Hadrian can be easily robbed as he just got off a ship and despite having traveled a lot, fought in a lot of armies, he resembles a simple unexperienced guy, who just starts his life. Royce is a lot different than Hadrian, so untrusting, grim, always suspecting something. The exact opposite of Hadrian, as Hadrian is a really friendly soul. So it was really interesting and great watching the development of their characters.This book allowed me to have a closer and more interesting look into the characters, I’ve met in Revelations and knowing exactly how they’re going to develop as the series goes on, spoils matters a bit. I knew what will be the end for them, who’ll make it and who’ll not, which of course leaves the taste of predictability. Oh and I just loved the scene with Golden guards! Narrative: The exact thing I adored in this book is that it continues to be easy, fun, action-filled, straightforward adventurous fantasy story. I can compare this book to a missing part, which fits into Revelations not being boring, repetitive or unimportant. I just felt that “The Crown Tower” has an intriguing plan in his mind, so I must prepare myself for great adventures as everything happens for a reason and so far my playdate in Riyria Chronicles is smooth and logical. Which is why I’m happy that Sullivan presents the unfamiliar parts to Riyria Revelations in unpredictable and engaging way. To sum up, I can say that Sullivan once more shines with his skill at creating a page-turner again. Oh and what was a great relief for me: this story doesn’t reach even 400 pages so it’s an easy and light read, especially after my Malazan adventure :D