That was a train wreck pretending to be Inception. That was so, so bad that my ears are still ringing, and my edition was hardback, not audio.*I understood almost all of it, and I'm not happy. Here's a short list of things that disappointed me. Major spoilers. 🌩️The most interesting character, Gideon, doesn't show up until the last quarter of the book.🌩️ When Gideon does show up, she sounds like a walking caricature of herself because the situation is grave but she's jarringly more flippant than ever, at least at first. Also, it's mega frustrating that she can't find Harrow, so their reunion is stalled. 🌩️The first two thirds of the book are written fake-portentously in second person: "You've read the book. You never expected the first three quarters to be a waste of time."🌩️The first three quarters actually are a waste of time. Except those weird-ass notes written in all-caps with messages like "YOUR EGGS ALL DIED." Turns out those were vital plot-point info. 🌩️What fan wrote in and requested a buttload more about Abigail and Magnus? And an *imagined* buttload at that? 🌩️The climax, the big reveal, exposes the creepy authority figure God as a liar who cheated on the rules of the book's fake science. I know, hold me back, it's too exciting. This means Gideon *isn't* the result of a night of passion. Instead, she's the clone of a God-necromancer who didn't zombify his cavalier 10,000 years ago and has been lying about it ever since. God's saints are so mad because they know in a flash that our girl Gideon is God's daughter. Gideon/Harrow genetically has God's eyes and they're golden, not the black eyes he's been wearing the whole time which proves Alecto,  oh, forget it, I don't care anymore, but if you still do, ask me and I'll tell you the rest. 🌩️Language, please! You probably won't ever again need such high-falutin' vocab words as "elucidate," "tergiversation," "collation" and "collocation," so it's galling to have to look 'em up just for this book.** I have theories about what *I* think all those hanging clues mean. So, here are a few maybe right but potentially-wrong spoilers. *I* think, and sure I might be wrong:*I called our woman Gideon God's clone because while the sperm "sample" came from God, the egg seems to have been collected *by* suicide-mission pilot Wake *from* whoever or whatever is in the Locked Tomb. *I think Alecto is the egg contribitor from the Locked Tomb, and God is very touchy about whether Alecto is a who or a what. Apparently she's the Resurrected version of Annabel L, and Mercymorn doesn't think Alecto even *has* her own DNA profile, which would make Gideon genetically a God-copy. *God meets girl-Gideon f2f at the novel's end, but it was Harrow's face & body, so God doesn't actually know what Gideon looks like. Yet. *Harrow can't recognize girl-Gideon anymore either, which seems to be *exactly* what Camilla & her rebel friends wanted to verify when they got her to peek into their tiny shuttle on that doomed lush planet in ch. 49. Presumably the rebels were toting a portrait because Polaroid sticky film's disappeared from their corner of the galaxy. *Camilla is lying to the amnesiac or "rinsed" redhead at the end of the novel, and that redhead is almost certainly Gideon. Camilla knows exactly who Gideon is. Also, Camilla & Gideon's mostly-dead body disappeared from Canaan House at the same time. *Amnesiac Gideon still has her own eyes, not Harrow's, because amnesiac Gideon's not a lyctor. *As her secret, Dulcinea almost certainly told Harrow that she and Palamedes had successfully swapped eyes (although why Pal still had them when the real Dulcie was dead feels like a glitch). Also, could Dulcinea's death have prevented Pal from attaining full lyctor powers? Because if he had "lyctor eyes" he should have also had lyctor powers.Anyway, it's an almost certain bet that Pal's dreamy gray eyes were actually Dulcie's, hence gal-Gideon unaccountably swooning every time Pal removed his glasses. And we just thought Gidget was branching out. That's all I've got for now, but if you ask, I'll try to theorize some more. :Dkeywords: this isn't how the fuck it happens either; i've always had bette davis eyes, and none of you suckers figured it out 'til now; you weren't in your skull, so I left you a note; there were so many rebels in that little shuttle that it looked like a clown car; but if I repeat the iambic pentameter joke five times, doesn't that make it funnier? I did not have sex with that woman, we just swapped eyes----------*On Edit: Okay, I lied here: my copy was actually digital, not hardback. Which means I can reliably tell you I spent 30 hours reading this book over a three-day period, which is the key reason I was ranting over the miniscule payoff. **Seriously. I once used "tergiversate" correctly in a grad school essay, and the professor wrote "Do NOT use this word" in the margin.