2.5 stars. And trust me, no one on this earth is more depressed about my low rating on this book than I am. This was the piece of media I was most looking forward to this year. More than Final Fantasy 7 Remake or Cyberpunk 2077, More than freaking Rhythm of War or the return of the Dresden Files, More, even, than the Mandalorian season 2 or the half a dozen movies I wanted to see that are now pushed back indefinitely. So I am really, REALLY depressed that I didn't like this book very much. It's been the year from hell, and with how much I was looking forward to this book, it kind of hit me pretty hard that it was basically boring, frustrating, uninteresting, confusing crap until the last 25-30% or so.Okay. So. Up front. To be honest, this book reads like bad fanfiction. We all know the kind. Where all of the characters' personalities and motivations are completely wrong, and the writer fixates on the complete wrong things, and doesn't really know how to come up with a coherent storyline that makes sense. So then it just devolves into a confusing jumble of characters that happen to have the same name as those in a beloved piece of media, doing something because reasons, and it's really confusing, and you wonder how the fanfic writer got from there to here. And then they use a lot of really big words, and an overly verbose style just to show how smart they are. That's what the majority of this book feels like to me. Bad fanfic written by someone who didn't understand the first book, and is under the delusion that their wordsmithery is second to none.The first two thirds of this book are extremely confusing, and, frankly, just not very entertaining on top of making absolutely no sense at all whatsoever. The Harrow in this book is really boring, and not herself, and the author doesn't let you know enough about what is going on to care WHY she is being really boring, and not herself until the very end of the book. Which, unfortunately is WAY TOO LATE for it to make a difference.A mystery is set up almost immediately in the beginning, in everything you know being wrong. Not one single shred of information or progress is made in that mystery until the final third of the book. It's just sitting there, being mysterious. It's mystery, for the sake of mystery. There's no real point to it in the story except to be mysterious. And it completely fails at that because of one very important detail. Because the author refuses to give even a single shred of information for two entire thirds of the book, those two entire thirds of the book make absolutely no sense at all whatsoever. There's a pretty big difference between a compelling mystery, and not one single fucking thing in the entire book making sense for two thirds of its length. That's not a bold decision in storytelling, or breaking new ground. That is flat out terrible writing. Absolutely TERRIBLE writing. It's not entertaining to have no fucking clue what is happening and nothing to even work with on figuring it out for the majority of the book. THAT. IS. BAD. WRITING! Also, fast forward to the end of the book, and then look back on that letter Harrow wrote for herself, and, more broadly, the conditions for reading the other letters she has left. None of these things pays off. Not one. It's basically just gibberish that is completely meaningless to the story in the end, and serves no purpose within the plot except to start off the mystery. None of the points in that letter is even addressed, except for one single off handed comment by Ianthe about the tongue/jaw line. That is a COMPLETE failure to follow through on even the most basic aspects of the mystery that the author set up.The fact that nothing makes any sense, is compounded by the fact that the author tends to overdescribe unimportant details to the point that they clutter almost every single scene, making it very hard to figure out what any given scene is actually about, and what is actually happening in it. I found it extraordinarily confusing. There are also several very gimmicky things the writer has done with the writing itself. Most notably would be the second person perspective that the overwhelming majority of the book is written in. Even knowing WHY it was written like that now that I've finished, it doesn't make any sense for the book to have been written like that, because it's not the character you think is narrating narrating, and even if it was, that character wouldn't have a reason to, because that character freely admits later on that she is not conscious for the vast majority of the book. It's just a gimmick that the author used to make the book stand out from others, that didn't really seem like she thought through entirely, because it doesn't work within the context that it's explained in the story. And it was really fucking annoying too, but that's probably just my personal tastes talking there. I couldn't make myself read it. I had to get the audiobook in order to get through it, because it was just that annoying to me, and the whole nothing making any sense thing was also killing my desire to read any more.There's also another big problem with the mystery and nothing making sense. Even now knowing what's going on, it still doesn't make much sense, and it kind of invalidates almost the entire book leading up to the reveal. Because none of it really has a point except to be mysterious and make you ask what the hell is going on? And a lot of it is kind of really boring, because you're both confused and frustrated, and then the surface events that you are being shown aren't particularly interesting, and the character being displayed is someone completely different from the character she was previously. If I were to go back and read the book again, I still wouldn't really have any idea what's happening and why, because there's just so much going on that doesn't lead anywhere. It's just there to take up space and be mysterious. Two entire thirds of this book simply exist for the sole purpose of taking up space and not making sense. On the other hand, the last third of the book is excellent, when the author FINALLY starts explaining things, and giving clues as to what's going on, like she probably should have been doing throughout the whole thing, the book is great. The second person perspective morphs into what I was assuming it was supposed to be, which is presented as a completely different POV within the story, which, kind of invalidates the entire reason the rest of the book was written in second person.So, this one is hard to rate. The first two thirds of the book are a 1 star book. The last third is maybe a 4 star book. That last third DOES NOT make up for the rest of the book leading up to it, however. This book is annoyingly written, confusing, frustrating, and a lot of it just doesn't have a reason to exist. No matter how good an ending it has, that ending has a lot to answer for, and it just didn't deliver for me.I love Gideon the Ninth. It's one of my favorite books. I've read it three times since I discovered it last year, and recommended it to pretty much everyone who will listen. I still do. Go read it if you haven't. It is a genuinely entertaining book. I will probably never read Harrow the Ninth again. The good parts are not worth the bad parts in my opinion. I'll definitely grab the third and final book in the trilogy, because I am still genuinely interested in where things are going, but I'm going to be kind of wary about picking up other books from this author in the future because of all the really bad decisions she made in telling this part of this story. I've lost a lot of trust for the author after this one. She's now on my do not spend money on ANYTHING without reading it first list. This is one of those times where someone really needed to be told no, but wasn't.