UPDATE: 99 cents on Kindle US 11/16/19Reread At first I couldn't get into the book because I didn't know what all was going on, I'm still not sure on a few things.I very much enjoyed the characters of Tea and Fox, they were siblings. And Tea kinda sorta brought Fox back to life when he died. What other reprimands he intended died on his tongue when the ground began to move. A terrible rumbling and heaving began underneath us, beneath the fresh dirt that made up Fox's grave. There was a muffled splintering inside that small mound, like something within the coffin had escaped it's confinement. As we watched, a cold, gray hand rose up, scratching and stretching, and gripped the tufts of weeds growing close to the grave. The strange being lifted itself out of its earthly prison with little difficulty and brushed the dirt off its tall, thin form. My mother fainted. When it raised its head, I saw that it had my brother's face, drawn and bloodless and dead."Tea," the figure said. But then it smiled, and it was Fox's smile, quiet and kind.Well, this didn't sit well with the peeps of the village so a Bone Witch named Mykala came to take Tea and Fox with her. She was going to train Tea to become an asha and eventually a Bone Witch if I have that right. Even though people come to the Bone Witch's for things they don't trust them and it would have caused a lot of trouble for Tea and Fox to stay with their family. There are all kinds of things going on in the book, some strange things that I want to learn more about. Oh and they wear these things called heartglasses. It took me a bit to figure out what they were talking about, but apparently you were them as a necklace and people can read things about you through the color of your heartglass. Seriously, I would not have worn those at all. Well, I guess in this world you have to, but I digress. I'm interested to see what Tea is going to do and become in this series. I'm not sure if it's going to be a trilogy or a regular series, but I will read them. I really do like Tea, I think she is an awesome character. And the book cover . . . AMAZEBALLS! *I would like to thank Netgalley and Sourcebooks for a copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.*MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List