I was kindly given a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review by SOURCEBOOKS Fire!  I'm going to be real honest with you guys, I only got 31% into this book and I just couldn't push myself to go any further sadly. I was just confused a lot of the time, so half the things I am about to say are probably not correct, but I am going to do it to my best knowledge.I love the idea of the book. You have these witches, or ashas as they call them, they can basically use their water/fire/earth power to heal is what I am gathering. There is also a bone witch who summons the dead (which is a lot rarer and obviously where the title of the book comes from).What I LOVE about the book is how you can tell people's emotions, worry and temperment from this "heart" they were as a necklace. The color of it depends on how powerful they are and how they are feeling basically and I thought that was a cool concept.Tea, the main character, is a bore. She doesn't actually talk that much and when she does it is always something like "why me" or "I did what [oh I'm so powerful]" or she is defending her mentor. I think the most interesting thing she does is raise the dead by accident but even then she was just... boring. "I'm just a boring girl with all this power and I am the chosen one" is what I gathered from this.They were doing this interesting concept where she is telling this story to someone who is going to write it in the history book. So half the book is italicized, which she is speaking to said-someone-who-is-going-to-write-it-in-the-history-book and the other half is the actual story that she is telling. I thought that was a neat concept.There are things called daevas? They are like monsters that you can't kill but they are dead for a certain amount of years before they rise again. Then bone witches, like Tea, have to go there and kill them again before they start to kill.There was like The Faceless, The Five Great Heros, some prince that isn't actually a prince so he is The False Prince... idk all this information was just thrown in there and I didn't know what to do with it.OH AND THERE IS A PRINCE that is obviously a love interest named Prince Kance that she is "shy" and "quiet" around but he remembers her name and her and that makes her special...I hope someone enjoys this book and can explain it to me because honestly I just can't read it anymore. When I am dreaming of the next book I am going to read, it's an issue. I am not sure if it is because I just got done with the masterpiece that is Empire of Storms or what, but this just isn't grabbing me.