Thanks Netgalley for providing an ARC!Here is what the author said we could expect from the book, and what I think about it :1. Geisha-esque girl fighters and strategists wielding powerful magic and throwing shade.  Kinda. They're not doing much except being booked for parties and going to Tea Houses, but technically yes, they're here and match the description.2. Male counterparts who dress in black and kick ass. I have seen no male kicking ass, dressed in black or not, unfortunately, except maybe Fox - the brother - who's a cool dead guy.3. Undead gigantic demonic beasts that do not die for long, no matter how many times you kill them True. I liked the myth and the legend told as a bedtime story.4. Bone witches who can CONTROL undead gigantic demonic beasts, albeit not indefinitely Also true. This part is interesting and probably will be more interesting in book 2 even if "not indefinitely" spoils the thing a bit. 5. Unexpected bonds between a sister and the now almost-indestructible dead brother she kinda sort of accidentally resurrected (who still maintains a surprising sense of humor about the whole thing) True. But saying there's a bond says it all. And "unexpected" is not the word that comes to mind. "No bond" or "nothing at all" would have been unexpected, though quite crappy. But when a girl raises her brother from the dead, we do expect something. A bond. For example.6. A couple of guys who can forge people new hearts to wear (and will be pretty important in the next book, which I am working on atm) -- Oh, I liked them! And they indeed have to be important in the second book or we're all wondering why they were here in the first place...7. -- because almost everyone literally wears their hearts around their necks. True. But literally only.This wasn't a bad book, but it was a boring book. Now, how can a boring book can be different than a bad one? Well, I enjoyed a few things :- the cover is magnificent!- the writing. It was pleasant and flowing naturally. - the Bone Witches job : raising and putting daeva back in the grave in order to keep the different kingdoms safe, creating the hearts of light people will wear around their necks from their 14 years old (I think it was 14, not sure), etc. I liked the myth created here.- Tea and her brother : it wasn't hyper developed despite the fact both characters are central to the story, but it was there and I enjoyed their odd siblings link. Big brother-little sister with a magical bond. It worked for me.- some try at diversity : Tea is "brown skinned", Likh, a male character, wants to do a woman's job and will go for it despite society and rules. Cool.- the two timelines : it probably has a name but I don't know it. I enjoyed knowing where it was going, it fitted the book - maybe because it provided the only hard facts to the story...Because one of the biggest issue I had with this book is that nothing really happens. The beginning is quite promising but I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that it's only descriptions of people, clothes, places and rituals for 75% of the book. You're living Tea's everyday life. And that's it. There's very little action, very little decisive moments. Most of it is clothing and lessons. Bo-ring.Also, I think some stuff should have been developed while some others should have gone straight to the bin : the characters sounded very flat despite some good ideas >> develop them and DROP THE LOVE TRIANGLE. The story is not focusing on romance at all - thank god - but were two potential Love Interests necessary? Hint : they rarely are. Especially when they're walking clichés. A Prince and his cousin-warrior-guard, REALLY? Also, minor fact but it bothered me while reading : the names. I had the feeling that it was borrowed and barely altered names from all over the fantasy landscape. We had a Zoya, a Kalen (both important characters), people called the Drychta, a place called Daanoris and extras called Mavren and Lia. It was a bit too much for me. I probably wouldn't have minded if stuff happened regularly, but the action was concentrated in the last 10% and it was too much and not enough at the same time.To sum it up : a first book with good ideas that was a massive introduction for whatever will happen next. Never works, imo. :/-------------------------------------------I GOT AN ARC!!! (THANKS NETGALLEY!) IT'S THE FIRST TIME EVER I GET AN ARC AND I'M SO EXCITED THAT I NEEDED TO CAPS LOCK EVERYTHING! THE COVER IS GORGEOUS!!! PLEASE BE GOOD, PLEASE BE GOOD...