RATING: 4.5/5Well...that was intense! Long review coming through :)When assassins ambush her best friend, Rielle risks everything to save him, exposing herself as one of a pair of prophesied queens: a queen of light, and a queen of blood. To prove she is the Sun Queen, Rielle must endure seven elemental magic trials. If she fails, she will be executed...unless the trials kill her first.One thousand years later, the legend of Queen Rielle is a fairy tale to Eliana. A bounty hunter for the Undying Empire, Eliana believes herself untouchable,until her mother vanishes. To find her, Eliana joins a rebel captain and discovers the evil at the empire's heart. As Rielle and Eliana fight in a cosmic war that spans millennia, their stories intersect, and the shocking connections between them ultimately determine the fate of their world and of each other.First impressions while reading:-Something was throwing me off from the characters and the plot. I was a bit confused - I thought Eliana was one of those “strong” female characters that have amazing physical strength to make up for lack of personality.-I made some assumptions about the plot and kind of discouraged myself to continue (NEVER do that guys).Any assumption, theory or idea I had related to the plot was very far off from what really happened. This book is AMAZING. I want to reread it immediately and experience everything again. THIS IS HOW YOU START A SERIES. None of that “it’ll gets better with the second book” stuff.Rielle is a very transparent character, in my opinion. I feel like she was written to be complex, misunderstood and maybe a little insane. But in reality, she’s just a girl with magical powers trying to get her shit together. What is so hard to understand about that? We know what she’s capable of, we know how her mind works. It’s all out in the surface for everyone to see. In comparison to Eliana, she is quite predictable.I LOVE RIELLE AND AUDRIC. Relationships that develop out of friendship are my biggest weakness as a reader. ”If there is wickedness inside you, Rielle,” Audric said hoarsely, his lips in her hair, “then I shall treasure it as I do every other part of you”.Get yourself a guy like Audric, he’s a keeper. Eliana kinda scares me. Her mind works in very twisted ways and she is highly unpredictable. But my initial impressions were wrong, she does have a personality and a very intriguing one at that. Unlike Rielle, Eliana doesn’t care what people (outside of her family) think of her. That's the biggest contrast between the two main characters.I very much enjoyed the back and forth POVs. Each chapter was better than the previous one. One minute I was missing Eliana’s story and the next, Rielle would swoop in and grab my full attention. It was very interesting to see the connection between both plots and how the events of Rielle's time shaped Eliana's world. Final impressions while reading:-Rielle and Eliana are my queens, I love them SO MUCH. Same thing goes for their significant others. -Well this was an unsatisfying ending….when is the sequel coming out?!Anyways…As you can see, I REALLY LOVED THIS! I seriously cannot wait for book two!!! I definitely recommend you emerge yourself in this awesome world and grow to love these two women just as much as I did.