Let me start by letting you all know that as a reviewer, it is my responsibility to give honest opinions. And I'm about to get real honest with y'all. Proceed at your own caution.Now let's get to it.As the title of my review implies, I (personally) believe that this is the single most overhyped book of this year. It seems that everyone and their mother somehow got an ARC of this book and was raving about it.All that hype, of course, did nothing to settle my nerves and in fact, made me almost certain that I was going to find something horribly wrong with the novel and absolutely hate it. And you know what?I mean, I didn't hate it. So, I guess there's that. It could've been worse.Did I love it though? No. Not really, as you could probably see by my rating.So, how did I really feel about it?Well, you're about to find out.First, to settle the big question: is the hype real?I wanted to love this book. I hoped that this would have lived up to the tremendous hype that surrounded it. It didn't.I think the main problem that I had with this book is that I simply didn't care for either the plot or the characters. Those characters could have all been hit by busses and I probably wouldn't have cared. If anything, it might have made things more interesting because I seriously wouldn't have seen that bus coming (and neither would the characters getting ran over lol). Talk about the ultimate plot twist, am I right?First off, there are two alternating POVs from Eliana and Rielle. They are set a thousand years apart although I don't know why. They two POVs don't play into one another at all and read more like two separate books than one interconnected story.Plotwise, I feel like the pacing was a little off.  There was no build up. The story started with a bang and didn't stop. This might not sound like a problem, but what it means is that there was a lot of action and very little of anything else. I didn't have time to care about either of the main characters because it just kept jumping back and forth from action to action in both perspectives. There was no time to get to know either of them and the little that I did learn about them was pretty unlikable.Eliana, for example, was insufferable. The "Dread of Orline" was what they called her because she's just that much of a badass. She's an Aelin type character, but with none of the fun personality to back her up. Also, I don't understand worlds were 16-18-year-olds can be the best warriors or assassins or whatever it is. Like, what the heck is everyone over the age of 19 doing with their lives? But that's a discussion for another day so stay tuned for it y'all!Then there was Rielle, who was the single most powerful person in the section story, and whom I equally disliked. Her personality, in my opinion, revolved around her growing lust for her own power, and her growing lust for Audric and Corien. She didn't really think about much else.Basically what I'm saying is that this book made both of the main characters seem like overpowered, boring, special little snowflakes. They are both so incredibly powerful and "special" that there was never any tension when they were "in danger". They were total Mary Sues. They could do no wrong and everyone loved them, despite both being pretty unlikable people.And a final thing! I can't talk about this book and not talk about sex, especially since that's all the main characters ever seemed to think about.Now, I have no problem with sex scenes. I'm not too much a fan, but I don't have any issues with them being included in novels. So long, of course, as they are somehow important and meaningful to either the character's development or the plot. My problem is with unnecessary sex scenes that do nothing other than show sex. Especially overdramatic, literally earth-shattering sex (I kid you not), and especially in YA. Honestly, though, it felt more New Adult than Young Adult so keep that in mind if you're iffy on that subject.I think the thing I hate most about this book is that it could have been good. These characters could have been amazing. This story could have been great. I could have loved it gosh darn it!Had the author decided to write some quality worldbuilding (other than the comments made by Remy that were obvious exposition). Had the characters been a little less stiff and generically special. Had the POV's played into each other a little more and felt a little more like one congruent storyline. Had the original idea behind this tale been a little more developed. If only a lot of things and this could have been an amazing novel.But none of that happened. And so the book wasn't.Sorry. Not sorry.But, let's get positive for a second. All books have good parts, don't they?So, what good parts did the novel have?Well, there was a lot of action. There was very little of anything else, but at least there was that so yay!And...Well...I don't really know.The start was interesting, I suppose. It gripped me from the very first page. Admittedly, it lost me like fifty pages afterward, but the beginning was cool.Also, a lot of the side characters were much more interesting than the main ones, not by much but I wouldn't have minded reading their stories instead.And that's it, I guess.This book is over 500 pages long and I was struggling to keep going. I almost quit halfway through and only pushed forward because this was an ARC and I do not leave those unfinished.So, do I recommend the book?Still, I also understand that I'm in the minority. A lot of people have really, really loved this book, a thing which I totally respect. If you are a fan, then more power to you! I'm genuinely glad. Heck, let me know in the comments what you loved about it if you want. I just don't think this book was right for me. You, on the other hand, might love it. But go into it at your own peril and if you don't like it, then remember I warned you!Let me know down below if you've read Furyborn and what you thought of it! I'd love to hear your thoughts! And remember to be nice! We're all friends here!Follow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest