Sputtering and vainly keeping it together, this finale’s turned out to be quite a downer… dammit!The only really exciting bits for me in this novel were Lucivar stumbling into Daemon in that service fair – I was like, ‘c’mon, c’mon…sign the bastard already!!’, Jaenelle majorly losing her cool with the Aaron-Vania episode, the ass-kicking after Wilhelmina’s aborted abduction, and, honestly?... virtually everything else involving Daemon.Yeah, even that excruciating scene he had to play out in front of them bitches Hekatah and Dorothea.‘Coz, quite simply, a certain ‘something’ was missing in this installment. Sure, Daemon becomes the Consort and, after what feels like hundreds of pages later on, finally gets it on with Jaenelle – and yet, all throughout this novel, there just doesn’t seem to be enough emphasis on the relationship itself between these two. That heartrending scene by the end of the first book, Daughter of the Blood, in which Daemon had to coax Witch from the abyss… there—where did all that emotion, that intensity, go? Jaenelle was an adolescent then, true, but even then Bishop was able to fully convey (well, to me, at least) just how much Daemon loves the girl-woman – the absolute despair at the thought of losing her was felt so keenly to the reader precisely because the interaction between them was carefully nurtured during that period when Daemon was staying at Beldon Mor.However, in 
Queen of the Darkness
 (wherein the prospect of him finally becoming the Consort was one of the things I really was looking forward to), it seems as if the whole story was about everything but Jaenelle and Daemon’s love (and reacquaintance). Stuff about friggin’ tangled webs, spiders and caves, cryptic messages of kindred dreaming dreams made flesh, and more (in retrospect) fumbling attempts by Hekatah to fight Saetan.And I think I really missed something in between Heir to the Shadows and this one: uhm… who is Marian? HOW exactly did the love story between her and Lucivar begin? It would have been nice (to put mildly) to have their story given more attention.By the way, yes, I am very much aware that this is a fantasy first before romance. And even if I do try to focus on the non-romantic aspects, I still find myself missing those bits wherein Jaenelle was an extremely likeable character. Wherein she is the Queen yet still very much that winsome daughter of Saetan or the bosom buddy of the coven and the kindred. This finale was just too too serious. Either she’s almost always withdrawn to herself, in pain, or in anger. And even if the reason behind these ‘serious’ things is the brewing threat of war (and how ‘queenly’ Jaenelle has had to act), the pockets of side-stories themselves (Karla’s, Alexandra’s, Lord Jorval’s, Kartane’s, etc.) which were supposed to help on with the whole storyline felt too disjointed and underdeveloped. Like there were really just there to fill-in the pages. Oftentimes, there really was no coherence or even absolute closure as to how some of the other characters’ fates played out. For instance, whatever happened to the triangle of power hinted at very strongly in the 2nd book? That of Jaenelle, Karla, Gabriellle’s? And Witch’s maelstrom itself? What happened to it? So much build-up on it but I turn a page and it has apparently passed. I mean… what the hell…? If this undisclosure was Bishop’s intent to convey how truly terrifying and majestic Jaenelle’s powers are that it defies description, well… frankly, it was quite disappointing. I was expecting more than rough winds and being tossed and pressed down on the ground…And then *poof!* there’s Jaenelle, done with the cleansing of the Blood, drained of her powers and now hurtling down into the abyss. It’s over. And THAT’s why Daemon’s ‘game’ in order to rescue Saetan and the others will just have to be the highlight of this particular novel. It’s a hefty consolation. I mean, if you have to skimp on the showdown itself, why not at least make the penultimate that devastating, eh?Okay, rant over.--Seriously, though, I am just really disappointed because I absolutely LOVED the preceding two books… *le sigh*