2.5 stars: I am completely baffled by why these books get such rave reviews. I have to admit there is *something* compelling about the world and characters that Anne Bishop weaves together, though I don't know that I'll ever quite be able to put my finger on what that something is.The majority of the writing is melodramatic, unimaginative, and contrived. I don't know if it has steadily gotten worse since the first book or if I was just more charitable when I started out. I was already growing tired of it in the second book, but by the half way point in this book I just couldn't help but outwardly sigh/roll my eyes at the ridiculous over-use of Jaenelle's midnight voice/saphire eyes, Lucivar's arrogant lazy smile, and Daemon's killing edge. Is this the only way Bishop knows how to differentiate the character's from each other? And was it really necessary for somebody to say something "too softly" every other page?The 3rd book opens up with more boring crap involving the villains. I actually stopped reading the small chapters involving Hekatah and Dorothea because they were so utterly pointless. They are bad and they are planning something bad. Nothing more need be said.Wilhelmina finally makes a reappearance in this book, but if like me, you are hoping for any kind of sisterly reconciliation, forget it. Jaenelle barely acknowledges her and the character is quickly misplaced after the first couple chapters. I'm not sure why she was brought up at all.My breaking point was a little over 3/4 of the way through. There are a series of scenes, and one in particular, that take place in a camp that are so horrifically graphic that I literally thought I might puke. What's worse, this whole section of the book was completely unnecessary to progress the story line! Perhaps the author would be flattered by effecting a reader so, but I almost threw away the book at this point. It took me a day or two respite to decide that it really couldn't get any worse and luckily for me, it didn't.To her credit, Bishop does manage to write some truly touching moments between some of the characters and I think these moments are the reason I keep coming back for more. I was moved by the last Daemon/Lucivar scene. And though I found it a little unbelievable that Jaenelle waited 13 years for a man that seemed to be little better than a childhood crush, I also enjoyed the Jaenelle/Daemon relationship culmination.I already own the 4th book, but it is unlikely that I will ever return to Terreille. All in all, I think there are better books out there for your time and money and wouldn't recommend these books to anybody.P.S. Was anybody else as surprised as I was to find out Lucivar wasn't actually gay in this book? Seriously, I was totally picking up the gay vibe from him in the other two books.