I was pretty excited about reading these because Bishop's Black Jewels series comes to highly recommended when you say that you like Jacqueline Carey's Kushiel's Legacy books.I have to say that they didn't match that excitement at all. I read the first three to give them a good chance to turn around and surprise me but after this one I couldn't go on, even though I know that there are more of them.I really really really hoped that this book would be in Jaenelle's perspective. That would have made reading the first two books worthwhile. If for just one second, we really knew what was going on inside her head and her heart--not just what every single male character who fawns over her thinks that she thinks or feels.Without any real insight into Jaenelle's actual mind, the books feel kinda creepy and almost...idk, voyeuristic? to me. Ever single male is totally obsessed with her and would die for her and they're so territorial and protective of her. It's not cute, it's gross. It's even grosser that the only thing Jaenelle's character gets to do to is love them so so much in return. She has more power than anyone else in the whole world, but she doesn't have an ounce of individual personality outside of her relationships with the main male characters. Every detail about her is some kind of plot device to see the emotional journey of the men around her. To be honest, that's just boring and lazy storytelling.Plus, the child rape.... Even beyond the fact that Jaenelle is raped at age 12...which is a plot twist that needs to be done very carefully... The fact that Jaenelle had to have all the men in her life come and save her from how emotionally and physically hurt she was by this left an extremely sour taste in my mouth.Especially since Daemon has been lusting after her since she was a little kid and fighting his inappropriate feelings for her since they met. But it's okay if he's attracted to her as a child, because she's WITCH and besides he's so noble and would never hurt her like he hurt so many other people and look! he even saved her after the 2Dimensional Very Obviously Bad Guys hurt her! obviously it's a totally healthy relationship...