I reread this to remind myself of everything before I read Fireblood. I'm really scared and excited and ADFHDGNKJDNSFI!!!!!!!<3<3<3Original Review:Oh. My. Goodness. This book was incredible! I can't believe that I have to wait until September for the next one... Elly Blake has an incredible writing style. The words flowed off the page and all the characters were so well written and developed. This is young adult fantasy at it's peak, I can't believe this book isn't more widely renowned! I was excited about every page, and finished it in less than a day. I couldn't stop reading, and now I could talk about this book forever! The book is fast-paced and it has a great plot all the way through. It doesn't drag on or end abruptly as many books seem to do these days. In case you couldn't tell, I really loved this book. :DRuby and Arcus are such great characters, and I love how Ruby is so unpredictable. She's not helpless or overly dependant on others as some female protagonists seem to be. I loved how she was able to take control of a situation, but could also be vulnerable at times. She can sometimes be temperamental and aggressive, but she learns from her mistakes quickly and is also aware of the fact that she has these problems. It was nice that she was not a natural at everything she tried, but had to put in serious effort and hard work before she could achieve her results. She was likeable and easy to root for throughout the novel.Arcus seems mysterious and has such great character development throughout the novel. He is extremely loyal to the monks and the people. He truly cared about the well-being of others, hence the fact that he was hesitant to trust Ruby at first. He was not impulsive, and rarely let his feelings dictate his actions. It was nice to see how this quiet, serious character developed throughout the book.I think it is really the characters that make the book so un-put-downable. They are unique and work well together in the given circumstances. The plot and the setting were also brilliant, but really I think the reason I liked it so much was because the characters are so well written and I really wanted to know what happened to them at every twist and turn. The history of the world that they were in was rich, and very well explained. You were not immediately overwhelmed by too many details being thrown at you all at once, but there was also so many cool things about the world that are beautifully explained. Some people have criticised this book for being predictable; but I personally did not find it so. I was enthralled by the plot, ideas and concepts throughout, despite a few clichés and familiar tropes. After spending her whole life in hiding, Ruby goes to avenge her people; right into the heart of the enemy. The constant struggle of choosing who to trust and the struggles of controlling her power guide the storyline, and the book was so thrilling.  Ruby and Arcus are so cute together at the end, I love it! Their relationship has the perfect balance between being realistic, but also really cute and swoon-worthy. Also, Arcus' big reveal in the arena was so incredible; I never saw it coming! To anybody who is thinking about reading this book; I highly recommend that you give it a go. ;D