**As promised, here is the Frostblood giveaway (and more!) on our blog-sponsored by Little, Brown!! Click here to enter! **Frostblood is one of those books that you see and you know you just have to read it. If not from the cover alone (umm, hello pretty cover), then by the promising synopsis. I first saw this book back in early winter-it popped up out of nowhere and stole my heart before I even read it. It was a case of love at first sight, and I knew nothing would do until I had this book in my hands. And, finally, riiiiight before it was about to come out, I got the opportunity from Little, Brown to receive a (again, GORGEOUS) finished copy to enjoy. And enjoy I did. There wasn’t one moment where I wasn’t fully engrossed in this story. From page one on, I was hooked. I honestly am just the easiest person to please with YA fantasy-give me a young tortured male with a heart made of ice (pretty much literally and figuratively), a hate-hate relationship…and I. Am. SOLD.“She’s not yours to name.”“She’s mine in spirit now that we’ve had an adventure together. And her name suits her. She’s soft and yellow, like butter.”He made a disgusted sound. “If we all had names to suit us, you’d be called Thorn in My Backside. Or Plague of the Gods.”I prickled at his scathing tone. “And you’d be Miserable Blockhead.”“Is that the best you can do?”“Give me time. I’m half frozen.”This book was clearly no exception. The first chapter broke my heart immediately-I mean whyyyyy-making it clear from the start that the author didn’t mind getting her hands dirty. I like that. I like that a LOT, and, even more than that, I respect it immensely. I’m not above setting a heavy precedent-it gives a book fire, passion, a reason to fight-and I’ve always loved that. Ruby is a Fireblood, a hunted people that can produce, you guessed it, fire, and who are immensely hot to the touch. Hunted by Frostbloods, the rare Firebloods who have not been found (and executed or sent to compete for sure death) yet are forced to hide, to keep themselves scarce. “You speak as if I’m as heavy as an ox,” I said. “Last week I was a bundle of sticks.”“You’re still too thin.”“Perhaps if I gain some weight, you won’t call me a stick anymore.”“You may hope to one day be a branch.”Ruby is in hiding with her mother in a village, not able to practice her craft or live freely as she’d hope. One thing leads to another, and Ruby is saved from a certain death after being captured by the Frostblood king’s guard...by none other than Frostblood rebels-the infuriating Arcus being one of them.I must say, I ADORED Arcus. He was moody, wounded, but loyal to all those around him and Ruby’s biggest ally. Well…eventually…but he was always a driving force in helping her train, in helping her become the best she could be. “And my touch threatens that somehow?”“In a way. I brought you here to prepare you for a huge task,” he said, dipping the cloth in the water and touching it to my cheek again. “An enormous weight rests on your shoulders.”I sighed, irritated at the reminder of what made me truly important. I wanted to mean more to Arcus than a way to melt the throne. "And now I wonder if I can let you go,” he added quietly. After seeing who Ruby is, how fiercely she wants to help, he starts to [secretly] fall for her, starts doing everything in his power to change what the rebel group wants from Ruby, to find literally any other way….because their plan leads to nothing but suicide. I just loved how antagonistic these two were towards each other and how they slowly began to find solace in one another-it was sweet, slow-burning, and the way he wanted to protect her, even when he didn’t like her, melted my [not so] icy little heart. And the fact that the rebel plan included him not leaving her side? Come on. Just…come on, *sighs* I lubbs him. I really do.“Who else is there?” He asked. “What Fireblood will do this but you?”“What if I destroy the throne? When it’s all over, are you just going to”-I waved a hand-“disappear into the air like mist?”“From the time we leave the abbey until you’re safely back again, I’ll protect you with my life.”So, you know, once again I feel like I’m out on a limb here, by myself, loving a book that’s absolutely wonderful all by myself. I don’t get it!!! What isn’t to like?? Swoony boy. Loyal boy. Fierce boy. Fierce girl. Mortal enemies. Enemies-to-lovers. Perilistic ending. Tons of [male] (male male male-NEED ANY MORE HINTS?) sacrifice. Tons of win. You people are crazy…but that’s okay. This book is wonderful-and I will proudly display this beauty on my shelf forever.For more of my reviews, please visit:    **************Ummm...Awkward. I guess I'm the black sheep again...whenever will I fit in! Lol oh wait...I DON'T CARE. *sings* Guiltyyyyyy :PStarting this beauty!! Thanks to the publishers for sending me a copy in advance! :)