Fire Meets Frost! Ruby is a fireblood that her mother has tried to keep hidden because firebloods are being killed out by the frostbloods, at least the evil ones. She's very powerful but can't control her power as no one has trained her . . . untilArcus is a frostblood and he's also very powerful. He is also something else that I can't tell you about, you have to read the book. He saves Ruby from a prison she was taken to when they evil ones found her. They killed her mother, she wants King Rasmus to die! Arcus takes Ruby back to the Abbey where she meets some wonderful people. One being Brother Thistle. They want to train her to use her fire and control it. Brother Thistle and Arcus have their work cut out for them but it mostly works out in the end. They want to help her be able to take down King Rasmus. Until Ruby is captured by the King's minions and brought back to his castle to fight in his pits. She is set up against people, animals, frostblood's. She hopes to be able to kill the king but will her plan every come into play? Maybe, maybe not, there is something else about the king . . . he's not quite right. Will Ruby with the help of Arcus be able to defeat the darkness. You shall see, when you read it! I enjoyed the book. I love Arcus, he's my frost king =) There were a few things in the book that made me want to smack Ruby but it was still good. Sometimes it seemed like she could have used her powers before getting caught. Either way, it worked out good enough for me. I will leave you with a funny little EXCERPT:"How did you find me?"He unclenched his jaw to answer. " When Wheatgerm returned to the stables, I followed her tracks until they disappeared. And then I heard someone bellowing nonsense, and I knew it must be you.""Who the blazes is Wheatgerm?" "The horse you stole from the abbey," he said as if talking to a simpleton. "You mean Butter. And I didn't steal her. I borrowed her. I take it she's safe?""Cold and tired, but safe in the stables eating like she's half starved. Which she probably is, thanks to you. And her name isn't Butter.""It is now.""She's not yours to name.""She's mine in spirit now that we've had an adventure together. And her name suits her. She's soft and yellow, like butter." He made a disgusted sound. "If we all had names to suit us, you'd be called Thorn in My Backside. Or Plague of the Gods."I prickled at his scathing tone. "And you'd be Miserable Blockhead.""Is that the best you could do?""Give me time. I'm half frozen."I just love Ruby and Arcus! ❤MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List