An outsider, weird child talking with invisible creatures slowly turned into a brave orphan disguised in boy’s clothes, riding on her horse to her unknown and undefined path and at the end she meets with her magic and called as a witch of winter.😭😭😭I cannot help myself not to cry over this end! Don’t take me wrong, of course there are so many tragic elements about the ending of the story and I waited at least three weeks after I ended the second book because I know that I didn’t want to say goodbye to Vasya, Morozkov, even Sasha, Marya, chyerti of the heart and of course Solovey! Amazing Russian folklore combines with real historical events of 14th century and mythological, miraculous, lyrical, poetic elements are the main instruments of the author to compose her remarkable, unique, classic symphony will always tune in your ears and the legendary journey of Vasilisa, Vasilii the bravest, Vasya the witch will always stay in your heart!  Vasya was a weird, outcast, lonely young girl witnesses her brother leaves to serve to God and her sister Olga, her secret-holder best friend leaves to get marry. Her stepmother tries to get rid of her and even her father questions her mental health because she sees and talks with the supernatural creatures and make her groom candidates run away without looking back. The first book: Bear and Nightingale is mostly a Russian family’s survival story against the vulgarity and wilderness of nature. Eventually Vasilisa slowly admits she is different and she doesn’t want to get marry or have children and also doesn’t want to serve to God! First step to learn her true destiny starts as soon as she encounters with the frost demon.   At the second book, orphan Vasilisa starts her tremendously dangerous journey with her new partner in crime, a witty beauty, loyal friend, her horse Solovey. She disguises herself in boy’s clothes, cutting her hair, riding adroitly on the horse, alone, heartbroken, exhausted, had seen more things for her own age. She starts to gather the pieces from her past and she encounters with her cousin Dimitrii, brother Sasha and sister Olga. Her brother questions her motives and doesn’t give away her lie and introduces her as his brother Vasilii. At the third book, everybody learns Vasya’s true identity but they also claim her being witch and try to burn her in the fire by a lynch group whose ring leader is Konstantin Nikonvinch ( Yes from the beginning this bastard wants to get his revenge and wait for perfect timing to conduct his big plan!) Something unacceptable, heart-wrenching happens… ( Nope, our heroine is still alive! But she is psychically and mentally wounded! I am not gonna spill any spoiler but this part of this book ripped my heart out!!!!!! MORE SNIFFFFFFFF) At this book Vasya suddenly understands who she is, what she is destined for, what she is aiming, where she is coming from and where she is going! This doesn’t mean her journey is ended after this trilogy! On contrary this is just the beginning because she is not immature, naïve, childish girl anymore, she’s gone through hell several times and she came back. She lost too many. She is tested with mind tricks. She learns her magic. She dealt with the evils for bringing good to her country. She is tested by magic’s attraction. She’s gone on the verge of madness and but successfully she learned to handle the devils, tricksters, liars, Bear, Lady Midnight. With the help of Pozhar and Ded Grib ( our favorite grandfather mushroom) who represents the chyerti, she uses her own powers to defend Moscow against its enemies. The ending war reminded me of Battle of Bastards –my all time favorite GOT episode- it is bloody, violent, terrifying, vulgar, harsh, unpredictable, realistic, agitating, mind blowing!Conclusion of the story was magnificent and I’m still hopeful in near future we may still take more journeys with those memorable characters.  This amazing story is about family, survival skills, discovering yourself, your roots, learning your past to define your future, fight, sacrifice.IT’S SAD, IT’S MAGICAL, IT’S EPIC, IT’S HEAD SPINNING, EMOTIONAL, ROMANTIC, POWERFUL, THRILLING JOURNEY! This trilogy stole my heart and I want to read them in near future to rediscover some details I may have missed. Vasya… Morozkov… You stole my heart and I want it back…I also want to read more of your stories. I hope my wish come true sooner!!!