"Better terrible truths than kind lies."Wow! Just wow! Here, I was thinking it couldn't get better than Six of Crows. I mean, you wouldn't expect it to, after the flawless SoC, and boy was I wrong! This is the best sequel of all time. This is incredible. Magnificent. Phenomenal. There aren't enough words. This is the kind of book that makes you feel like there aren't enough stars to give a proper rating."Bad situations happen to be my area of expertise."The main plot is as thrilling and dramatic as ever, with never ending twists keeping the reader immersed in a sea of suspense. One cannot guess how something is going to turn out the next moment, but nothing ever feels unrealistic no matter how it does turn out at the end. Story is much longer, complex and rich in details than first, with many little side quests paving the way to the big ending. Bardugo outperforms herself with Cooked Kingdom, improving upon the perfect writing style that made SoC special, and introducing every bit of flavor one could hope for."But of course, nothing was sacred to Kaz Brekker."The setting of Kerch (and Ketterdam) is amazing. The atmosphere is maintained in such a way that reader will feel addicted to the plot. The inevitable chaos reigns over everything else, but it's a chaos that one would easily fall in love with. Even the heartbreaking events feel very much in harmony with the flow, intensifying everything. It's difficult to describe what makes it so, but for, me, Bardugo's world building is nothing short of perfect."Never underestimate the public's desire to get something for nothing."The author effortlessly makes one feel right at home with our beloved gang, again, who are getting ready to write the wrongs that came with the ending Six of Crows. If you thought the characters were great before, wait till you're done with this, for Crooked Kingdom will help each one of them make it to your hall of fame. Kaz's scheming capabilities reach a whole new level - a level where you'd be clueless throughout the most part of the book - with all other characters getting further refined. We get to be more personal this time around, especially understanding the emotional side of each one, allowing the reader to empathize on a deeper level. SoC might've inclined me a little towards Kaz, Inej and Nina as my favorites, but I no longer have a preference among them. Author makes sure each character gets ample opportunity to prove each one deserves the best spot in their own way."To be fair, Matthias, you don't like much."It's hard to resist sharing particulars of the plot, but doing so would spoil it for future readers. So I'm gonna stop at saying that everyone should give this series a try. And if you're any kind of fantasy fan, this duology is a must read. You are not going to find many books that will surpass Six of Crows, which has become a yardstick to measure future fantasy books for me. Though most of the things did end in a satisfying way, I do hope there will be a third book (at least) for this series. With the seemingly unimportant loose ends that Bardugo has left behind, it won't be difficult. But again, how can one top this?"Matthias was dreaming again. Dreaming of her. The storm raged around him, drowning out Nina's voice. And yet his heart was easy. Somehow he knew that she would be safe, she would find shelter from the cold. He was on the ice once more, and somewhere he could hear the wolves howling. But this time, he knew they were welcoming home.""You're all right. You're all right."