“Crows remember human faces. They remember the people who feed them, who are kind to them. And the people who wrong them too. They don’t forget. They tell each other who to look after and who to watch out for.”A nearly perfect conclusion to a mindblowing and breathtaking duology. I promise you, I've never read a better example for diversity and representation. This series features characters of multiple cultures, faiths, and sexualities, suffering from mental or physical illness and battling different handicaps. And it all comes so natural and feels so real.Characters:I love my Crows. All of them. Even thoug Kaz has some serious issues to sort out. And it's stunning how round they are, how much work was put into them. Each has their own background, fears, passions, etc. All of them go through character developement and nobody is left behind. It's really impressing how Leigh Bardugo manages such a large and multi-layered cast.Plot:Unpredictable and heartstopping, Leigh Bardugo pulled some really mean but genius stunts. To be honest, it took me way longer to read this book than I thought it would. Sometimes I was not in the mood to keep reading and I'm not sure why. Often the plot dragged a little. Then again it was rather tiring, seeing them go through one disappointment after the other, each one more and more hopeless, until Kaz has a perfect but risky idea to save them all. It's an old hat (but yes, a pretty nice one).Anyway, the ending was satisfying and everything I could have wished for, except for one thing. Matthias's death. It was so random. He didn't even die during an actual mission, by taking a bullet for someone he loved or fighting an enemy. For me, it felt like Leigh found it too unlikely that all of the Crows could survive, so she had to kill one off, and Matthias was the most expendable. One moment I'm thinking about Matthias's amazing character developement, turn the page and bam he gets shot. This situation and its effects didn't move me, by the way. It was too much melodrama, too unoriginal.Something else, that bugged me were loose ends.1. The Kherguud. Winged, unbeatable guys chasing Grisha. On one hand this subplot had lots of potential, on the other hand it was a bit overwhelming and the book would have worked just as well or maybe even better without.2. Nina's new abilities and the effect jurda parem has on its survivors produced a slight plothole and a few unaswered questions.Anyway, this book was wicked and thrilling, vicious and triumphant. It wasn't perfect, but pretty damn close.Find more of my books on Instagram