"Because, silly thing, you truly thought I would leave you."
Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ ❗This review contains spoilers❗In all honesty, I didn't expect to love this as much as I did. The first book was good, really good, but I wasn't as invested in it as I was in this one. I mostly wanted to read this because I was curious as to how the story would develop further, especially the romance. Also, I do really love a college, secret magical society setting. Bloodmarked was absolutely riveting!!! The pace might be a bit slower than in the first book (its second half anyway), but the intrigue, the conflict, and the romance were all set on a whole other level. The way race and racial discrimination were addressed also left a strong impact, as strong as in the first book, and it was given the same attention as any other point in the book. Not to mention how incredible that ending is because I am still reeling. I hope Bree knows what she's doing, even though I can't for the life of me fathom what could be a good enough reason to just up and leave your loved ones for some demon king that wants to feed on your powers until there is nothing left of you. I really hope the next book comes out soon so I can find out what the hell Bree was thinking. Admittedly, I was a little bummed to realise that I hardly remembered anything from the subplots or most of the secondary characters, but luckily that didn't affect my reading as much as I feared. Thankfully, I still remembered the important points, although this series is definitely due for a reread. I love finding those little clues and subtle foreshadowing after reading the sequels. This is another reason I want the next book as soon as possible. I just don't want to forget anything again.Moreover, Bree Matthews becomes about a hundred times more interesting than she was before. She still has those badass-in-the-making vibes and by the end of the book they really start to come into effect. Her character arc didn't develop as much as I had anticipated, but I actually found that more realistic. She is still a teenage girl that is in over her head, with magic she doesn't know much about and enemies that want her dead left and right. In fact, she handles herself pretty well considering the situation she is in. I could tell as the ending neared that there will be more to her character in book 3 and I cannot wait to explore that.As for two of my favourite white boys, Nick and Selwyn, they have to deal with their own problems now, not that they didn't have to before but it become about a hundred times worse and Bree isn't there for moral support and romantic drama to distract them anymore. Nick isn't as worse off as Selwyn but he does have to deal with the fact that both his Kingsmage and his girlfriend are in some serious trouble and he can't really do anything about it as far as we know, at least. Sure, he is the only one who is safe now, as opposed to his situation in the majority of this book, but there is still a lot on his plate. Then there's my poor half-demon baby Sel is in a real bind now. His demon side has taken over him, which makes him dangerous to be around, especially when it comes to Bree and her magic. It kills me to see them apart, especially after everything that happened between them. At least he finally reunited with his mom, not that we get to see it, but still. This book did nothing to change my feelings for this complicated, adorable boy, in fact, they actually intensified. His character development was greater than any other character's in the book, even Bree's and I loved seeing him gradually letting his vulnerability show in front of Bree, as his feelings for her kept growing.Besides, the best thing about these three is their complicated relationship with each other. I don't really care for love triangles. I don't love or hate them, but this one I am deeply invested in and that is because it is a TRUE love triangle. It's not just a girl torn between two guys that love her as much as she loves them. The guys had feelings for each other too at some point in the past. Nick and Selwyn were in love with each other in the past, and even though that love was toxic, they still care deeply and love each other. Bree's appearance in their lives may have inadvertently brought strife between them in the first book, but now she seems to have brought them closer together, in spite of her feelings for both boys making their situation more complicated. Personally, my main ship is Bree and Selwyn. I've loved their chemistry and dynamic since book one and I've been obsessed ever since. However, I've been really into polyamorous relationships lately, so I'm kind of hoping for a triad even though I know it's probably not happening. 👀👀 I'm happy either way, though I will not accept any other alternative. 😇😇Finally, Alice and William, my two favourite secondary characters in this series, have been nothing but pure and lovable treasures in the entirety of this book. No one else could ever come close to these two. They are both fiercely loyal, caring, brave, and level-headed (a necessity when evading capture with Bree and Sel), and the best companions those crazy kids could ever ask for. Nick is the exhausted single parent that constantly has to take care of and Alice is just a constant voice of reason in a cacophony of arguing and stubbornness. One thing that caught me by surprise what the antagonism-to-reluctant-friendship between Sel and Alice that had me in stitches over and over again. I really hope I get to see more of them in the next book, even though Sel isn't being himself at the moment and Alice is in a freaking coma!!! Seriously, things couldn't be any shittier...🥲🥲Everyone better be whole and hail soon, that's all I'm saying, otherwise I will not hesitate to file a lawsuit. 🤷🏻‍♀️🤷🏻‍♀️What did you think of Bloodmarked?