“You are the point of our arrow […] the tip of our spear. The bow of our ship. The flame of our long-simmering heat. You are the living embodiment of our resistance. The revelation after centuries of hiding. The pain-welded blade. Wound turned weapon.” I have been waiting for Bloodmarked with baited breath since first blowing through Legendborn last year. That excitement only (somehow) grew upon completing my reread of Legendborn last week where I was again reminded of all the many things Deonn not only got right, but hit out of the park, alongside all the crumbs and threads left that I was eager to see fleshed out. All that excitement and optimism to say that I felt more than ready to tackle Bloodmarked. I’ll start with the positives before going through some of the critiques that I feel held this back. First, as in Legendborn, Deonn doesn’t shy away from putting slavery and the theme of racism front and center, demonstrating in micro and macro ways the ways racism continues to run rampant and power current structures and systems. The racism Bree experiences from those within the Order meant to protect and uphold her manifest in many ways, some shocking, some, sadly, familiar. Deonn deftly puts these on the page and Bree has many memorable moments where she refuses to let the Order ignore what circumstances and systems of power put her in her current position as Arthur’s scion. The challenge of what is acceptable, palatable, better left unsaid so as not to make white people uncomfortable is what continues to make this series so incredibly important. “They will still find a way to claim my power as their own. Ignore its origins, because those origins discomfort them. And expect my humility for surviving the violence of a system they helped build, maintain, and benefit from.” Another aspect I liked, though one that I think contradicts some plot points made in Legendborn, was the diversity included with several new characters, many in positions of power within the Order. From BIPOC lieges to mageguards, we find a cast of characters that starts to look a lot more like our society than just the very old white money of an old southern institution. I say this contradicts from Legendborn plot points because we find that Bree as a black squire is not actually the first, and that other minorities are embedded in the Order in other positions of power. It may be just that the racism may be more pronounced or felt in the southern chapter than some of the others, but I’m not totally sure it checks out. It’s a minor quibble in continuity I’m willing to overlook because I think the representation is itself more important. Now for some aspects that weren’t successful for me. Diving into this one felt daunting because it felt somehow like there was an immediate reset on the characters from where we find them at the end of Legendborn. The connection between Bree and Sel seems unnaturally frayed and fraught with tension — and not in the teen pining way, and Bree herself felt a bit disconnected. After everything that’s revealed at the end of Legendborn, it doesn’t seem that the months between that and the beginning of Bloodmarked (~3 months) find Bree adjusting any better to her circumstances or having come to any processing of it all. But nonetheless, the action immediately picks up with new factions involved. Quickly on, the Legendborn world is expanded significantly with more layers to the Order revealed. While the expansion was creative and interesting, I’m not convinced it was cleanly done. Despite entire paragraphs of info dumps, I don’t quite understand each Regent’s position or motivations and the Order system and hierarchy felt muddled and confusing. Within the first 100 pages, there’s almost too much introduced information wise, but not enough character wise. Bree feels like a mere shadow of herself, which is saying something as I didn’t leave Legendborn with a solid grasp on who Bree is as a character outside her trauma and grief. Despite being so connected and in love with Nick (or whatever emotions), Nick often felt like an afterthought in Bree’s thoughts, instead of up front and center as an emotional driver. Bree also doesn’t seem keen to look into mastering or understanding her powers for 300+ pages, despite wanting to keep throwing herself into danger unprepared, and knowing that such actions could cause the death of all those connected to her through the Lines. Bree simply just felt wooden and flat. In Legendborn we got to see clever aspects to her - we’re told she’s academically gifted and smart, putting clues together about the Order on her own, manipulating Nick into making her a page…but here, all that seems to vanish. She’s just a figurehead - and while I can see how that’s the attitude for some characters around her, I expected more of a reaction from Bree about this than just doing nothing. She even makes a statement that she doesn’t want to be coddled and protected, while also stating she knows she’s putting herself and all of them at risk every time, yet even STILL she hasn’t made the decision to learn more about her powers. Sel as a partner to Bree during Nick’s absence felt like a squandered opportunity to bring these two even closer and leverage the ~feelings~ developing and hinted at in the end of Legendborn. It’s not clear why their relationship backtracks so starkly in the beginning, but this persists for several hundred pages. Sel also goes off on other things that further removes him and Bree from connecting on any level and because it all happens away from the eyes of the readers, we really have no sense for what’s going on with his character. Where his angsty attitude in Legendborn was starting to come together and make sense, here it felt forced and too drawn out. I also expected Sel to have stronger feelings about Nick’s kidnapping, given the bond and oath that keeps them so intricately tied together. There are moments of….something with Sel and Bree that I think are meant to keep the love triangle aspect alive, but they felt cringey and inauthentic because these two would immediately go back to being cold and combative. It’s not the push and pull of opposites attract, it’s like they literally resent the other, so the romance just felt toxic and unhealthy, especially with what we know about Sel’s background and how he’s always been used. Frankly, I think each of them needs development INDEPENDENTLY of each other and Bree doesn’t need either love interest to be interesting. She IS the story.“You invoke grief now so that death will never surprise you again. You imagine how it could happen, so that you can imagine how it cannot. You wish to destroy it before it destroys you.” As I mentioned above, it takes Bree 300+ pages to decide she’s going to learn how to master her powers — this did not make any sense to me. It did not make sense given how clever and eager she was to learn weaponry and fighting for the tournament in book 1, and especially now that people have died and betrayals are afoot. I can understand not feeling worthy enough of being king, or not even wanting to take up that mantle and responsibility when you feel unprepared, betrayed, and not accepted, but the emotional drivers of Nick being kidnapped and wanting to save her friends should have been enough to spark….something, some commitment to action and understanding of how she can tip the scales and tide of Camlann. Time and again, Bree just makes matters worse, knowing she can’t help in battle. “This world wants my suffering, and I cannot keep giving it to them.” While the middle suffered from pacing issues, the ending introduced so many elements and Plotinus without really seizing any of them that it makes me confused about the direction of the series. There are the Morgaines, the Shadowborn, Sel and his demonia, Nick and his feelings, the regents and Order, the rest of the Legendborn and table, and all the truths that Bree uncovers about herself. None of these is fleshed out and many of them are left conveniently on pause. You might say this is so that they’ll be picked up in the next book, but without going into spoilers, I just don’t see how they can all be connected well and without making things feel so convoluted. There were opportunities to stick the landing with introducing these elements, the Morgaines especially, that didn’t happen, so I wonder if they shouldn’t just have been left out and saved for the next book entirely. Too many new things at once — you don’t know where your attention should be going and it doesn’t feel satisfying. And if you’re wondering where Nick is in all this — so am I. He was a non-starter throughout and an afterthought repeatedly, which was surprising given his role in Bree’s life in book 1. I suspect Deonn is still figuring out what to do with him now that we all know how he and Bree are connected, not just through the Order, but by family histories, but from book 1 I actually think he had a lot of good character foundation and would have been interesting to explore further, maybe get some POV chapters. Again, the story is Bree, she’s the story so I don’t think the romance with either is needed but if it’s going to continue being part of the plot, I think both need more development to matter. The ending itself is where I feel the most unmoored and letdown. I’ll put spoiler tags.  When Bree refuses her oaths to Arthur, that made sense, though it’s just not clear how she can do this and this requires much more explanation of the magic system rules. However, when Bree renounces her family line, Vero and all her ancestors, I just….I have to say, I feel like that was disrespectful and the antithesis of the themes presented in the book and ethos of Root, how its taught, used, passed down, borrowed by those who need it from ancestors. It felt like Bree was spitting at her family line because she couldn’t make both fit and it felt like such a spoiled position. It felt like Ike it sent a message that they were weak, that they just ran while Bree would be stronger, without acknowledging what they had to sacrifice and live through just for her to exist and have these privileges. It just felt harsh, abrupt, and so out of character. I have hope subsequent books will have Bree realizing she’s acting like a petulant ungrateful child and that the real work is finding a balance between her family history and trauma and who she is as a person today. It’s hard to carry the mantle and trauma of our families and their history, as a child of immigrants I get that it feels like we’re weighed down by things we had no voice in inheriting, but cutting it all out isn’t, to me, the answer, because all of that still makes us who we are. Volition may be intention, but there’s a reason Volition is so powerful and a place of safety, because the ancestors made it so, because they remember and they provide safe passage, learning and knowledge, and comfort to those that come after.” Overall I highly respect what Deonn is trying to do with the story and her voice is incredibly powerful, but I feel that Bloodmarked was too much at once without a clear direction and without deference to the characters. I’m still committed to the next book and series (I suspect it will be more than a trilogy, or I hope so given all that was introduced), but I do hope we see much more of Bree as a fleshed out character, get more from the supporting cast, and explore Nick and Sel each more deeply, and get a clearer picture of all the magical elements and players circling around. Despite all my thoughts, I still recommend this series, there’s more to come and I will be eager to see where Deonn takes this. Thank you Simon Teen and Fantasy Frenemies co-hosts for my galley in exchange for an honest review. Rating: 2.5 /5, rounding up to 3.