“We ran for many reasons. We ran to protect ourselves. We ran so we would not die, so that our daughters could live.”  Bloodmarked was one of my most anticipated reads of the year and it absolutely did not disappoint me. This book was the perfect blend of carrying the story forward along with new elements that added to the world building of both the Legends of Arthur and Rootcraft. Bloodmarked picks up just a little bit after Legendborn, when Bree's entire world was shaken to it's core - she gets little to no reprise and is immediately thrown into a new wild chase to find out how to harness her new abilities and learn more about Rootcraft. Unlike the first book, Bree knows more about this hidden Knights of the Round Table world, which means there's a lot less info dumping in this book. Thankfully Tracy still gives us a bit of a rundown because I've always found the structure of the world hard to keep straight. We are introduced to another branch - The Regents, who want to keep her safe more than anything else, even to the extent of hiding her away. Seeing this expansion of the legends made sense, since they needed more manpower. Bree was incredible in this as always and we finally got to see her friends (Alice and William) take on a larger role. We also get to see more of Sel - and his possible descent into his demon self. It was pretty much tragic, lovely and hilarious to see. We know there's still a massive love triangle between Sel, Nick and Bree - and with Sel outright saying that he's Bi and had a huge massive crush on Nick, I can only hope that this ends with a happy relationship for all of them. They're all so connected with each other, via love and oaths, that it's the only way I can see it ending well. There is such a strong emphasis of grief, anger, rage and acceptance in this book that I felt like I was going through it with the characters. Even with all this, Bree still gets a few moments of Black girl joy, her birthday being one of the sweetest scenes in a book I've ever read. Bloodmarked went in a direction I couldn't have predicted & I blame that on my own creativity, but it was such a perfect book. I cannot wait for book 3. rep// Black MC, Bi MC, Asian SC, various queer side & minor characterscw// nonconsensual drugging, torture, possession, racism & microaggressions, strangling, grief, imprisonment, sexism, panic attack, PTSDFind me on: instagram | tiktok