“Liber vos liberabit - The book shall set you free”If good marketing and stunning art cover lured you here under the pretence that you are going to read some genre-bending fantasy, you need to know that you have been deceived. This is essentially a romance A farm boy has a romp with an upper-class lordling his sister hopes to marry and then is sad when the world proves to be a nasty place. Ah no, sorry, my mistake. Happy ending ensues (not for the sister, though). set in a 19th century UK with such tiny dash of magic that an English tea has more milk in it, and as much plot and suspense as a shepherd’s pie recipe offers. In fact, a book-burning scene is the unequivocal highlight of this novel. The book comprises of three parts and two distinct POVs. It offers a first person narrative which is prone to ruminations and slowing down the pace of plot advancement (luckily there is nothing to advance here so that’s not a big problem). Nonetheless, this type of narrative is entirely character-dependent and that proves to be a bit of an obstacle because the main protagonist, one Emmet Farmer, is unbearable. I wasn’t convinced that Emmet has anything substantial to offer because he knows nothing, is insecure and not that smart. He is a kind of “the ground lifted off its anchor and rocked on a sea of darkness” protagonist. Imagine someone wobbly, fainting and unsteady on his feet for the first part and then just an ordinary push-around. There is no character development (no, whining does not count) and at no point does Emmet show some other, surprising side to his personality. The scene when the antagonist (?) (I am really in a quandary here, as for me every single person in this book - save Seredith perhaps - was an antagonist) is introduced, the scene that is meant to show how insensitive and callous this individual is, in fact only shows the complete spinelessness of the MC. Being bossed around your own territory is not a thing that will make you my friend. I can accept a couple of paragraphs for the sake of character development, but not the 300+ pages of it. OK, so here we are: the novel is overtalked, there is nothing pro- about the ‘tagonist’ and thus the interesting setting and original idea is the last hope. Especially that the description promises a whole lot of things riding on the bookbinding concept. This whole bookbinding business is half-confession and half-lobotomy (with divine forgetting instead of divine forgiving); a process that erases part of the person and transfers it into a book. It is a fiendishly clever idea! I wanted to know more: where does this power come from? how does it work? why is it that Emmet is a powerful binder (what makes the person a powerful binder and what is the difference between a mediocre one? what is exactly his strength?) how does the binding happen? None of the above is answered and the last problem is dealt with ONE SENTENCE and it reads: “how it works is a mystery boy.”Jolly good!Which basically means that at some point, the author had this vague idea and instead of working out the details that could be used as building blocks for the story, she just uses it as a premise without further consideration because who cares (I do!) and she is writing a gay romance first and foremost so other things are more important. In my book, this is unforgivable. Why? Because there is an infinite WEALTH of possible PLOTS abandoned just like that and blanks the author has not bothered to fill:We are told that bookbinding a sacred calling, but there are just random people doing things in vastly different ways with no organised guild, and no laws (the whole world is rather lawless) outside of the invisible supply and demand hand of the market. There are ruthless upper-class miscreants but no king that would be in a position to create a veritable dystopian autocracy of bookbound citizens. There are private vaults, but there are no libraries. There are snippets from history (oh there were crusades, ages ago like 50 years back, so everybody forgot already and it’s business as usual) but it is not properly explained why bookbinding is kept secret (bizarre as secrecy jeopardises the whole idea!) and then how is it that some people know and are totally indifferent about it. None of these elements have been thought through and the consequences are only alluded to which frustrated me to no end. Even worse: the blurb insinuated that books are dangerous things. But books are not dangerous in this novel. People are. It is not a book about books (and I love those) as they have no agency whatsoever. It is a story how power corrupts and how humans abuse it: how bindings are being sold without consent, how people become prostitutes selling memories and therefore their selves, bit by bit ceasing to be, how memories are taken without explicit consent in order to perpetuate abuse and exploitation, how you can be blackmailed with a book or outright destroyed.And what do these two fine male specimens do in this slightly dystopian, and unjust world? Do they fix or break the system? Do they try to alter the processes? Perhaps they attempt to straight some individual wrongs? The correct answer is: Nothing. They do nothing that transcends their personal entanglement. They can prevent a murder but they don’t bother in the end. They also terrorise an innocent maid threatening her with an abuse of the binding powers, but all for a good cause so don’t pay heed. This good cause is their own happiness which started with cheating on the sister and this is all the Binding is about. This book is nothing but a soft-paranormal romance and I am sure some readers will be fine with it. Cool, there is nothing wrong with romances, I read them too provided that they have acceptable premises and likeable protagonists. The Binding does not have those. The only thing you can desperately clutch here is the fact that the romance happens between two boys and across the societal strata so if those things excite you, you might give this plotless, dreary tale a go.