I wanted to like The Unbroken so bad, and for the most part, I did. The North African inspired setting is fascinating, the prose is eminently readable, and the dynamic between the two protagonists has great potential. This book was pitched to me as “a political fantasy about a disaster lesbian who makes terrible choices”, so I went in fully expecting the main character to mess things up and act in poor judgement. As a result, I wasn’t particularly bothered by Touraine’s bad decision-making skills. I think it’s perfectly understandable that, when thrown into a completely new environment and forced to reconsider her life plans, she panicked and struggled to figure out what strategy she should follow going forward.However, and this is a big however, the same cannot be said for Luca. I have a really hard time believing that an adult woman who was raised to rule an empire could be as utterly clueless as she is in this book. Right from the beginning, I got the sense that Clark didn’t really know what she wanted to do with her character, and the few interviews I’ve read have only solidified my belief. This book cannot decide whether Luca is a ruthless colonizer who would do anything to ascend to the throne, or a compassionate ruler who sympathizes with the plight of the Qazali people. In case this isn’t clear to anyone reading, the two cannot coexist. Luca can’t have spent her entire life preparing to become queen, only to be shocked at the violence her colonial army is inflicting upon the natives. She is the Balladairan empire; her home country’s wealth and prosperity are directly dependant upon her ability to continue exploiting the colonies. Her final decision to withdraw from Qazal and grant the rebels independence reads especially absurd when you consider what a long, messy, complex process decolonization is. Given how many different interests are at stake here, the idea that one princess could just wake up one day and decide that colonialism is over with absolutely no pushback from anyone is laughable. How is the economy going to fare, now that they can’t import raw materials from Qazal anymore? Does Luca even have the legal authority to transfer sovereign powers to the rebels, when she isn’t Balladaire’s head of state yet?In my opinion, this inconsistent characterization negatively affects her relationship with Touraine, too. I initially thought Clark was aiming to establish them as enemies who are fatally attracted to each other; nemeses who cannot be apart, but are destined for mutual destruction. In fact, the possible presence of this trope was one of the main reasons I picked up this book. Instead, I got… an angsty romance between a semi-enslaved bodyguard and the colonizer princess who refuses to acknowledge that their interests are incompatible. An odd choice, if you ask me. Don’t even get me started about Luca asking Touraine to join her in Balladaire, and Touraine actually considering it. I understand that her whole deal is making bad choices, but this is a little too much even for her standards.All in all, I would say that The Unbroken is less than the sum of its parts. There is a lot to love about it: the nuanced exploration of colonialism, vivid setting, and lovable protagonist kept me interested in the story even when the politics became too hazy and unrealistic for my liking. I’m not sure I will pick up the sequel, but C.L. Clark is an author I want to read more from.