The Unbroken takes on so many things and does so expertly, tackling magic and rebellions and even a bit of romance, but above all, colonialism. This political fantasy follows two protagonists, Touraine and Luca. A Qazāli soldier, pejoratively referred to as a “Sand,” Touraine was stolen from her homeland when she was young to serve the Balladairan empire, and now stationed at home again, she begins to question everything she thought she knew. Luca is the Balladairan princess intent on making peace with Qazāli rebels to prove that, instead of her incapable uncle, she can be ruling on the throne. Their paths cross as loyalties form and wither and the “threat” of the rebels grows larger. Touraine was starting to think it was impossible to come from one land and to live in another and feel whole. That you would always stand on shaky, hole-ridden ground, half of your identity dug out of you and tossed away.Touraine’s arc was one of my favorite parts of the book, difficult to witness at first but resulting in an ultimately satisfying growth. Touraine’s mindset as a colonized person is twisted and disturbing to read, the way she believes the warped things she had been taught about her own people and thinks that if she commits more and more of herself to the empire they will finally see her as more than a Sand—but it is all too reminiscent of the thinking patterns that colonized people have in the real world. Clark handled this frame of thinking with care, challenging it through other characters’ criticisms while ensuring that the reader understood that it was a result of colonial brainwashing. Throughout the book we get to watch Touraine work through her complicated thoughts and feelings about the empire and her and other Qazālis’ role in it, and her development was truly fulfilling.While I enjoyed reading from both Touraine and Luca’s perspectives, I found that Luca wasn’t as compelling of a character as Touraine was for me. Even if it weren’t already a bit unsettling to read from a colonizer’s perspective (which was the point and well-done, with no justification for horrible actions), I didn’t feel a strong connection with her as I did with Touraine. Luca was an interesting character and I loved the insights that her POV offered, specifically with how colonizers may believe they search for “peace” but fail to realize that without justice for the colonized, there can be no peace. But in comparison to Touraine, who had such a strong character arc, Luca fell a bit short for me.As much as I might have liked Touraine and Luca, though, I truly did not enjoy their romance. I knew beforehand that it would be a colonized/colonizer romance and I was apprehensive about that, but it was written in a sensitive way, so that wasn’t my main issue. What bothered me was that there was a lack of development and chemistry between Touraine and Luca. This didn’t hinder my enjoyment of the book since the romance wasn’t part of the main plot, but their relationship still was a large influence on some of the storyline, resulting in more emotional parts falling flat for me since I honestly could not see how their feelings had developed.“You’ll have to fight for one side or the other. Why not fight for the side that gives you freedom?”Whatever I found lacking in the romantic relationship was luckily made up for in other relationships. The found family Touraine found was heartwarming, especially in how they played a large role in her growth and escaping from her brainwashed mindset. I loved Touraine and her mother’s relationship the most, though; nothing is unaffected by colonialism, and that includes relationships and family. Touraine and her mother’s growth, from misplaced resentment and misunderstanding to the love and fondness they were never allowed to feel, was so lovely, serving as a source of joy and an outlier in the tragic outcomes of families in a colonized land. It honestly made me want to cry at certain parts.If you were to ask me what the highlight of this book was for me, though, with complete certainty I would say the way politics and colonialism were written. How different facets of colonialism were explored on a more personal level through the characters themselves was masterful already, but equally impressive is Clark’s portrayal of the effects of colonialism on a larger scale. As inspired by France’s colonization of North Africa, what the Balladairan empire did to the Qazāli people and their land was painful to read, from the suppression of Qazāli religion and language, to the pitting of rebels and Sands against each other despite being from the same culture. The fact that, from its characters to the broader setting, almost every aspect of this book is influenced by colonialism only serves to reinforce the idea that colonialism is a completely destructive force and leaves nothing untouched.“We pray for rain.”“No. Be the rain.”The Unbroken is definitely on the slower side, so if you’re looking for a faster-paced fantasy this might not be for you. I myself wanted things to move more quickly in the beginning, but if you can let the story slowly unravel in the first half, you’ll find yourself quickly devouring the rest. (It took me several weeks to read the beginning, and then I binged the last half in only a day.) This is truly a book to savor and take your time with in order to fully appreciate all that it encompasses. If you enjoy fantasy with a complex examination of colonialism, you will undoubtedly be satisfied by what you find within the pages of The Unbroken.—★—:: representation :: Black North African-coded lesbian MC, wlw MC with physical disability (injury), Black North-African coded characters, wlw characters, non-binary side character:: content warnings :: murder, death, violence, past attempted rape, torture, racism, colonialism, depictions of grief, depictions of bloodThank you to Hachette for sending me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. This did not affect my opinion in any way.All quotes are from an advanced copy and may differ in final publication.