Thank you to NetGalley and Orbit for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review. Overall rating: 3 stars The Unbroken was on my most anticipated books for this year mainly because it is a North African inspired adult fantasy written by a Black author, LOVE THAT. The setting was giving me Morocco vibes and I was here for it. We have two POVs: Touraine and Luca. Touraine is a soldier who is returning to the country (Qazal) that she was born in but she has been gone for the majority of her life. She and hundreds or thousands of other children were taken away when they were young and raised to serve this empire. She looks up to a general in this Balladarian army and strives to literally “be the best she can be” LOL. Although Touraine has essentially wiped her hands clean of her homeland, some of her fellow soldiers have not and long to find family members and learn where they’re from. They don’t serve the army because they want to, it is because they have to. Luca is the princess of this empire. Her parent have died and her uncle is ruling when she is supposed to be the queen. She needs to prove to her uncle she can handle being the queen. She heads to Qazal, which has its struggles between the native people and the Balladarian people who have come in to try and control the country. There are constant clashes between the natives and the government and Luca needs to get it into control and have a healthier, yet still beneficial to the crown, relationship with the government and the people of Qazal. Without spoiling certain aspects, Touraine finds herself in a sticky situation where the princess saves her and makes Touraine her assistance. Luca thinks that she can use Touraine to be her “spy” and ambassador to the local people to somehow make peace. Needless to say, it does not go smoothly and there’s lots of twists, turns, and battles for the city of Qazal. The first half of the story was my favorite. I loved the world building, I could perfectly envision the setting. I loved the political intrigue and military aspects of the story. I at first enjoyed the two main characters because I thought they both were unique and I had an idea of where it was going between them. This story has lots of themes of colonialism and the effects it has on the country that has been colonized and what it does to the people. What happens when children are taken away from their home country and their people and raised to fight against them ? It talks about the struggles of coming back to a place you don’t recognize as home, how you feel you’re a citizen of the country that raised you, but the country that stole you and made you be a soldier still treats you as less than. I felt for Touraine so much, especially in the first half, because she was so conflicted and didn’t know what side was “right” and what her role in all of this should be. I really liked Luca in the beginning because she seemed like a princess who actually wanted to help. She wasn’t helpless, she was smart and capable. She has a disability but she didn’t let that stop her from being able to fight. She doesn’t take pity for her disability either. She reads and studies and she tries to learn so they she can be a better ruler than her father was. I was so excited in the beginning. However, around the midway point it started to slow down for me. It’s hard to say why without spoilers but both Luca and Touraine kept being somewhat wishy-washy with their feelings towards each other and this situation going on in Qazal. There was so much back and forth, especially from Touraine, that it was hard to keep rooting for her. She’s supposed to be this super capable, smart, strong army Lieutenant but yet she makes really dumb decisions that put people she cares about in danger. Another aspect that would have helped is if there was more with the magic. Magic is gone from the city and without it, the story felt less fantastical. I wish it was present throughout the whole book because I would have enjoyed it more. When we do finally see magic, it’s so dark and I loved it and I wish it was a bigger part of the story earlier on. Overall, a solid start to a series. I’m interested to see what the next book does, but this one could’ve had some changes and maybe been shorter and been a more enjoyable read.