I've been a fan of Robin Hobb for several years. I loved the Farseer Trilogy, adored the Liveship Traders, and enjoyed the Tawny Man books even if the last one fell apart half way through. I eagerly grabbed up Shaman's Cross when it came out, but in the aftermath of the house fire it ended up in a box, forgotten and unread. I recently unearthed it and placed it at the top of my to-read pile.Quite simply it was a disappointment. It was probably only my great love of the author that made me struggle through, where with any other I would have tossed the book aside. Perhaps with great force. The first 200 or so pages are dry, heavy exposition delivered by an unlikable character who doesn't seem to care about the world around him. Only a handful of scenes were enjoyable - the scout, the time spent with Dewara, and the wind wizard. An excellent set up is given for having each chapter start with a journal entry, a style I really enjoy and would have lightened that awful infodumping, but it is ignored.The book was an utter struggle until Epiny was introduced. She comes off as shallow and silly, but at least she's interesting. Which is more then can be said of the main character, who seems to serve only as the voice for the author, telling us how he is interested in the world instead of showing it. After Epiny the number of interesting characters increases.Set in a mid-1800s-America-if-it-was-run-by-a-monarchy(right down to the geography!), supposedly it takes place in the same world as the other three trilogies. This book is heavy with two-by-fours. The treatment of native peoples is a sensitive subject for me, and after the absolute nightmare of a U.S. History class I took this last year this book just ruffled me further to the point the most feeling I had for many of the characters was the desire to soundly beat them. The plainspeople and Specks are constantly painted as a savage and misguided, and their magic and love of nature evil. Except for brief moments of 'nature is beautiful, pity we're destroying it'. Perhaps if things weren't so thinly veiled it wouldn't be so annoying.For the most part has that wonderful prose that I adore, as dull and boring as it was in places. Unfortunately near the beginning it was shaky, and read like it had never seen a revision. And the repetition of whole sentences occurs throughout the whole book. Layered on top of the message two-by-fours it was all just too much. The story takes forever just to get to the plot points mentioned on the dust cover, which when read sound like the set up for the story, not the end of it. It really hurts me to score it so low. There was so much promise in the characters, the world, and the story, but it just feel apart under the weight of infodumps, exposition, and a lackluster narrator. There is just enough hook in the last couple of chapters for me to pick up the second book, but I won't do so with any great hopes.