So I've given this novel 3 stars as I feel that it is the rating that best represents my feeling towards it. This is a decent book with some interesting ideas that are ultimately somewhat frustrated. Now you're probably thinking that stating the obvious is a weird way to start a review, and it is. The reason why I considered giving this book 5 stars was that the average rating was so low. When I see that a book on here has a rating below 3.5 I usually disregard it immediately. There are terrible books on here with much better average scores and it seems unfair that a decent book such as this has an inferior rating than some other crappy, exploitative books (you know who you are). But that's life, huh? 3 stars.  A lot of the struggles of this book come about as a result of it's sole, first person narrator, Nevare. I think Hobb deserves praise for writing a character whose 'voice' is so in keeping with the culture he represents. A lot of fantasy writers have characters fighting, scheming and adventuring around medieval Europe-style feudal kingdoms who inexplicably have modern, western values and sensibilities. Hobb deserves credit for writing a character who throughout this novel always feels like an 'officer and a gentleman' in a British empire style colony. However over 600 pages this leads so some real difficulties for me, as a modern reader, to feel connected to him. Nevare is at times a cool character who gets involved in exciting adventures and has interesting facets to his personality. However at his core Nevare is dull. He has a really strong desire to follow the rules, obey his father and do his duty without ever really considering the morality of doing these things in a society with some very questionable values. As a rule I prefer multiple POV's in books as they give a better understanding of a wider range of characters. As a result of Crossings first person narration secondary characters never develop as much as they could. Two characters that stood out for me however were Epiny and Nevare's father. Epiny is an independent, intelligent woman who is determined to not quietly acquiesce to the oppressive expected behaviour of women in this society. However Epiny is not an idealised heroine for women's rights. She can be immature, annoying and insensitive. These failings made her struggles against the unfairness in society all the more engaging for me as she isn't just a 2-D martyr for justice. I especially enjoyed how she eventually resolved her conflict. Nevare's father is another intriguing character. He is a heroic soldier, a caring father and a just lord. He is also deeply racist, classist and sexist. He is a loving father and husband but he also controls the lives of his wife and daughters often acting as a morality police. He believes in the 'white man's burden' of 'civilising' the 'natives' for their own good but is a reasonable and just ruler over the conquered peoples. He views common soldiers as a dissolute mass who need to be guided by their virtuous social betters but is a good officer who cares about his men. Due to the evils of colonialism it's easy to view those involved as inhumanly arrogant and cruel. This moral ambiguity is what made Nevare's father a great character. He was a fundamentally good man who was ultimately controlled by the oppressive society he was born into.  For the most part the plot was well-written and well-paced. However there were times when events seemed forced. (Some spoilers) Early on Nevare's father sends him to be trained by a bloodthirsty warrior with a grudge in the harsh desert plains. This training seems a bit extreme for an officer in a British Empire style army with advanced firearms where most officers purchase commissions.  Later on at the academy Nevare, as a 'New Noble', faces constant prejudice and hatred from the snotty 'Old Nobles'. At times these sections play out like a college comedy as The losers are bullied by the snotty rich kids. There's even a self important dean/colonel who doesn't like to party. However the social conflict always seemed forced to me. I could understand the classism if Nevare was a commoner or if his father was a commoner who had been promoted to a lordship but Nevare's grandfather was a lord. His family have been nobility for hundreds of years and all of the bitter hatred aimed at him because of his class is based on the fact that his father was a soldier (and a decorated officer at that)? There are interesting politics behind the scenes that reveal that the class tension is more about political influence than any real social superiority but these are only occasionally mentioned and most of the conflict is only shown as the 'Old Nobles' being stuck up to the 'New Nobles' which quickly becomes REALLY annoying. We also see that the new nobles are systematically persecuted at the academy, bullied by Old Noble students and disciplined and expelled over trumped up charges. Yet they do nothing about it. I could understand it if they were commoners who had no way of fighting a powerful institution but the reason for the unrest is that new nobles have too much influence. Their fathers have solid holdings that are expanding rapidly and many have close family in the city with powerful connection and yet they do absolutely nothing to fight back against the Old Nobles. It just seems as if Hobb is determined to write Nevare and everyone close to him as magnets for injustice. So all in all this is a pretty good book. It has some good ideas and an interesting setting but it is ultimately let down by some stilted characterisation and dodgy plot points.