**Update. Below is the review I wrote when i read this book. Sadly I completely disliked what came next. I guess it happens.**Allow me a little leeway here. I tend to like plot driven books, but to be fair there are some wonderful character driven books that have drawn me in and I've loved. I like a character to be well written and clearly drawn, to be "true to him/herself". In other words not to suddenly change and do something "completely out of character" because the story suddenly needs it or something. That being said, sometimes a character can be written well, everything in the book can make sense for the character ...but some of it's just dead weight for the story. Some books or series have "FOR ME" note I said "FOR ME" have been ruined by being over written. The Wheel of Time comes to mind. Everything from beyond book 6 would profit from the attention of a good editor. So what am I saying about Shaman's Crossing? I'm saying there were times I thought this book would barely rate a 3. I was ready at times to pull my hair out (a little irony there if you've read the book). While Nevare is well and truly written...the book is just so full of fluff. I was so ready at so many times for her to just "move on!". Still, some of you will love the extra "detail" and for you I'm happy. I'm aware that what is for me at times mind numbing, even useless detail (as it isn't germane to the story) some will find "color" and background. Here you get background.And...I have a second problem with the book. The book is built with what amounts to two (2) main stories or plots. Sometimes this works. Sometimes a novel will have a plot and a sub-plot, or multiple sub-plots...or even sub-sub-plots, on and on. This sometimes works. Here in "MY OPINION" note, in "MY OPINION" the two stories had a real problem meshing so that she could get to her climax at the end of the book. It seemed often to me as if two incompatible story lines had been "jammed" together and then nailed in place.I have several Robin Hobb books on my shelf (waiting [LOL:])and have been planning to get to them for some time. I went to this one first as I had a situation where an audio Ebook fit into my schedule better and I have several print books in process already. I read some reviews of this one before I started it and noted that several people who read this book (this trilogy) said it wasn't Hobb's best work and recommended that people who are new to her start with one of her other works... I hold out hope that they will be even better. This one while driving me crazy at times I finally decided was, over all, a good one. Bottom line? 4 stars and I do, at least tentatively plan to go on with the trilogy.