Isolde never wanted to be married, but when the vampire king Adrian and his army arrive on her kingdom’s borders, she realizes that she must sacrifice herself to save her people. After a failed assassination attempt, Isolde is informed that if she tries to kill him again, he’ll turn her into the very undead that she despises. Forced to join him and his court, she struggles to defy him and survive, denying her growing feelings for him and uncovering devastating secrets that will change life as she knows it.I admit it – ever since I read Dracula at the tender age of eight, I’ve had a thing for vampires and will read almost anything with them in it. This was a fast-paced and easy read. The author incorporated some decent worldbuilding and mysterious aspects (killer crimson mists and a mysterious red-haired woman who appears to Isolde sporadically in mirrors) that added to the depth of this read. However, the twist was obvious and wasn’t a big reveal.I disliked the relationship between Isolde and Adrian, mostly because it wasn’t a relationship/romance, it was just sleeping together. There didn’t feel as if there was a real emotional connection between them. Instead, they both just wanted to be in bed together. Constantly. While I don’t mind some spice in my books, this felt like the author just wanted to write vampire sex scenes then build a story around it to sell a book. Thankfully, the sex scenes were well written overall (I’ve read some truly awful ones) and easy to skim. The characters were also lacking. Isolde was a frustrating protagonist, who was supposed to be 26 but acted like she was 15. She’s also touted as being a “strong female lead,” but instead treats other women awfully while being petulant and demanding (this isn’t feminism, so please don’t advertise it as such – are we still in the early 2000s?). Adrian was relatively bland as a character, and there was no real character development or growth until the very end of the work. I thought this read was fine overall, but I couldn’t call it as good as my other 3-star reads (it’s more like 2.5). If you like super spice, then you’ll probably enjoy this read.