*opens mouth* *closes mouth*I don't really know what to say . once again I find myself a minority in my opinion of this book among my friends but I would still say : don't waste your time with this folks .Its like some horrible rip off of the shadows between us and from blood and ash . It has no definite plot , no intrigue or excitement and read like some fanfiction by a 13 year old and fell FLATT. The rest of the book was just smut and not good smut at that either . It was so very rushed and had these leaps between scenes and odd conversations that were just confusing . I was promised enemies to lovers but all I see is insta-lust (and oh boy do I hate this) Isolde supposedly hated him while he 'loved' her for absolutely no reason but yk going at it means nothing . THE FUCK?? and his use of 'my sweet' was so godamn cringe and weirdd .I think I was gonna barf from our FMC . This girl is so wrongly confident of herself and utterly stupid . She tries to give off 'I'm not like other girls' vibes and OH MY GOD , like can u please use your head to think and not your vagina instead of master baiting all the time . I usually love dramatic babes but not her . she was excessively aggressive , spoiled and petty . those scenes between her and the vassal were so unrequired ? she absued her power alott . The characters lacked depth and personality and the only people I didn't hate is probably the trio. It bothers me to have to open that book once again to look for any supporting evidence but here are some thing that reminded me tooo much of FBAA :1. She's thick - ok ok that's fine , that's good I cant say that belongs to fbaa only . its a feature right ?2. Her kingdoms enemy is a vampire male who she meets without knowing his identity and his race is misunderstood . not bad3. Trained in weapons and prefers daggers . pretty much half the female leads in YA , so ? its the overall effect points 1 to 3 make combined with the rest of the points that I just couldn't ignore4. She stabs him , he survives , everyone thinks its cute and is amused as she is flustered . hardy har har , cuuuteee 😊😒5. That scene in the starless forest where he touches her underneath the cloak as they ride on horseback is almost an exact replica of the scene in the blood forest6. Even the cover is similar ! and Fbaa does it much better in generalI don't think I can even hate this book , the feeling is closer to disbelief and pity ?