It is hard to know where to start with this book. What was lovely about it (and redeemed it up to two stars), or the reason I will not be reading past book one of this series?I suppose I'll start with what there is to glow about. Silkpunk!! I never knew how much I wanted to read Silkpunk until Liu wrote it. Beautiful. Adventurous. Complex. Thoughtfully crafted and researched. Wow do I love Liu's prose and ability to put together an epic, multi-threaded story. This lives up to all the promise we've seen in his short stories and delivers more in terms of structure and visuals.Now for the problem: this is a dude-bros only adventure. Yes, Liu has created a unique fantasy genre in 2015 and he still has chosen that only boys & men go on adventures while women stay home and support them or need saving..................... -_- ....................(my not impressed face for you while that is contemplated, sorry I'm too old to gif it, we'll have to be happy with ASCII). Ah yes, one day maybe I will stop getting sucker punched because I expected better. There's been so much love for this book that I just didn't see that one coming.Ok, so this aspect is his personal artistic choice for his unique melding of Chinese and Western story-telling traditions. But did he not read KameronHurley's excellent, award winning essay "'We Have Always Fought': Challenging the 'Women, Cattle and Slaves' Narrative" . Just because women haven't been in the stories, doesn't mean they weren't there doing all the things, so WHY WHY WHY, is someone still inventing a new genre where women don't do all the things in 2015????? ARGH. I can give Tolkien a pass for having created his tale based on epic traditions in the 1930s, but Liu has created his in 2015 and he gets no passes.At 25% there is still no woman in this book who isn’t a whore to be ridiculed (fortunately very few of those, though I am left wondering if it is only because the hero who visits "loose women" gets married relatively early in the tale), a wise wife who’s life’s mission is to be supportive of her husband or a mother to be defensive of her son (sons only, not daughters of course).As excited as I was about Liu's new "Silkpunk" esthetic, this is not a book that cares whether it has a female audience  (see update below), and I for one will read no more of The Dandelion Dynasty. If however, you are a reader who doesn't mind dude-bros only adventuring - well see my second paragraph. There are definitely good reasons people are raving about this book and I'm pretty disappointed that I'm not.UPDATE: The author has responded on-line to other people talking about my criticism here, and I feel obliged to make note of it. Quoting from Twitter (and hopefully not editing too much as to mis-represent): "I did understand that approaching gender this way is risky.”, "and it’s problematic in some ways. I was hoping to develop the issue over a longer arc over the series.”, "but I think some readers will not have patience. And I have learned a lesson.” So I am one of the readers without the patience. My comment above on the book not caring whether it has a female audience was probably too harsh, but it does not change the fact that that is an easy interpretation to make from what is on the pages of Volume 1. Given the many positive attributes, there may be a day when I'm willing to come back to this - but certainly not before the whole series is done.