An ambitious, epic fantasy... that at times felt more like reading a history than a novel.I've become a fan of Liu's short stories, so was eager to read his debut long-form novel. (At over 600 pages, it is pretty long).We're introduced to the archipelago of Dara, a collection of islands which seem to be constantly at war. The book follows a number of characters who plot coups, rise to power, form alliances, betray each other, and sometimes die miserably and violently.It's a fantasy-with-not-much-magic. There are gods who spend time commenting on human behavior, and occasionally making suggestions directly to individuals. There are a few fantastic beasts and mysterious occurrences, but largely the laws of physics apply. In that, it reminded me of much of Guy Gavriel Kay's work, especially the recent 'River of Stars.' The main characters are Kuni Garu, a seemingly 'ordinary man' who may have a great destiny, and Mata Zyndu, who never seemed ordinary - it was always assumed that he was born to be a hero. Their changing relationship is the thread that runs throughout the book - however, there's a sometimes-dizzying cast of other characters. Dara is described as very ethnically diverse, but culturally, it seems pretty Chinese. I have a sneaking suspicion that if I were more familiar with factual Chinese history, I might find some interesting parallels here. At times, the plot events seem like they must be based on real events, because while their complexity seems like more than a fictional plot would call for, it's very much in line with power struggles that might really have happened, with many different factors coming into play.Individual chapters here are brilliant. The writing is excellent, and some of the scenes are beautiful, heartbreaking, or thought-provoking. I very much agree with many of the observations and conclusions that are brought to the forefront through the narrative. They include philosophical notes on war and the nature of conflict, human relationships, gender roles, how expectations can twist people, etc. At times they were just slightly too obvious, though. Taken as a whole, the book took a bit of work to get through, and I found myself a little bit distanced from it. Maybe it's the third-person objective point-of-view which contributes to the 'history-book' feeling I mentioned.