Rogues is an anthology edited and corralled by George R.R. Martin. For those unfamiliar with Martin, apart from his Game of Thrones work, might expect it to be fantasy. And there are certainly some fantasy pieces. But there is no one genre for these stories. A lot of different authors from different genres contributed to this book. Sometimes they wrote in the genre they are best known for, sometimes they didn't. Tough Times All Over - Joe AbercrombieAbercrombie set his piece in his fantasy world, with a cameo by one his characters. It's a quick-moving story of a city full of rogues. Thieves, gamblers, conpeople, prostitutes, fighters and more. It moves from character to character, often multiple times in the same page, giving a quick glimpse before moving on. A fun story it was a great way to start the book.What Do You Do? - Gillian FlynnI've not yet read her famous novel, Gone Girl, so I wasn't sure of her style of writing. A very much not fantasy story it involves a semi-prostitute/fortune teller who gets pulled into a twisted family full of dark things. Think The Good Son. It was a huge shift from the first story and a great way to show how this book isn't rooted in any genre. A very dark story I enjoyed it.The Inn of the Seven Blessings - Matthew HughesBack to the realm of fantasy for this story of a thief who has a run in with a god who forces him onto adventure. A fairly run-of-the-mill story, nothing about this one was surprising, but it was good anyway.Bent Twig - Joe R. LansdaleI've only encountered Lansdale through the film adaptation of his book Bubba Ho-Tep and recently I read his Western/sci-fi Zeppelins West. So I didn't know much but I expected it to be strange. This story involves his two most famous characters, Hap and Leonard (soon to be TV series on Sundance). Compared to his other work I know this story was very much rooted in the real world. The two men are on a mission to rescue Hap's girlfriends daughter from the seedy world she inhabits. A brutal, grim tale it was straightforward plot wise and relied on the shock value to keep things interesting. I think I prefer his more outlandish work.Tawny Petticoats - Michael SwanwickThis tale is the usual con story however it's mixed with sci-fi and biopunk elements that remind me vaguely of Paolo Baciagalupi's works. A decent story, it was a bit predictable.Provenance - David W. BallAnother one that was easy to work out before the end. Non-fantasy, non-sci-fi, set firmly in the real world It was interesting though a little full of infodumps, especially for a short story.Roaring Twenties - Carrie VaughnI quite liked this one. Fantasy set during the Prohibition era. Set in a hidden speakeasy this one room story was a lot of fun. I'd like to read more stories set in this world.A Year and a Day in Old Theradane - Scott LynchOne of my favourite stories, from the writer of the Gentlemen Bastards series. This is about a group of retired thieves in a very magical world getting caught up in fight between two powerful wizards and being set an impossible task. I loved the world and would really like to read more stories about the group.Bad Brass - Bradley DentonAnother new author for me. This was a kind of strange one involving a temp teacher/thief, a high school band, and a black market for musical instruments. I wasn't really sold with the ending but it was an ok story. Doesn't make me want to go out and find more from the author.Heavy Metal - Cherie PriestI've previously only read Boneshaker, a book I was not overly fond of. This time she's set her short story in Tennessee and there are no zombies, just the supernatural and the Bible. Joy. For someone who claims she is no longer religious this is a very religious short story. Really made me dislike what could have been an interesting story. Guess I'll avoid her work from now on.The Meaning of Love - Daniel AbrahamOne of the smallest of the stories so far. I know Abraham's work through his collaboration with Ty Franck on the Expanse series, as well as his solo work with The Dagger & The Coin. I would call this fantasy but it could have just as easily have been set in medieval Europe. A tale of love and what people would do for it. A solid story.A Better Way to Die - Paul CornellI only recently heard of this author due to his novel London Falling which came up in conversation in my book club. I've picked up the book but haven't read it yet and after reading this story I'm not sure I will anytime soon. Set in an alternate-reality Edwardian era Britain this sci-fi story is confusing from the very start. Not much is explained and everything is discussed as though the reader is already familiar with it all. Terms and titles are used with no frame of reference. I pushed my way through and made some sense of it all but I was left wondering if the effort was worth it. I did not hate it but I did dislike it and so far find this story the weakest.Ill Seen in Tyre - Steven SaylorI've not heard of this author before but he is most known for writing detective novels set in ancient Rome. I like the sound of that. There is an element of fantasy and this story is an homage to two classic fantasy characters, Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser. One of their stories was set in Tyre and this story uses that as the background. It was a nice touch and I liked this story, though it was rather simple. I might have to try more of his work.A Cargo of Ivories - Garth NixNix is best known for the Old Kingdom books. I've only read Sabriel, though my wife is a diehard fan. One day I will read the rest. This story is about two of his minor characters, Sir Hereward and Mister Fitz, a knight and a puppet sorcerer (literally). I really liked this fun adventure. It wasn't very long but it was just the right size. Diamonds from Tequila - Walter Jon WilliamsThe only Walter Jon Williams book I've ever read is one he wrote for the Star Wars universe so I had no idea what to expect. Fantasy, sci-fi? Nope this one is more down to earth. It takes place on a film set in Mexico and is about the usual. Sex, drugs and fame. It was a decent story and I liked the plot device. No twists or turns to this one really.The Caravan to Nowhere - Phyllis EisensteinI've not heard of this author and it appears she hasn't written anything except short stories since the 80s. This story involves the character from her first books, Alaric the Minstrel, who possesses the power to teleport, and his travels around the world. Set in a quasi-Middle Eastern location I liked this story and would like to read more, though I wonder whether it would be worth reading the original 30+ year old books.The Curious Affair of the Dead Wives - Lisa TuttlePreviously I've read a couple of Lisa Tuttle's collaborations with George R.R. Martin but I believe this is the first time I've read any solo work by her. The preface said this was supposed to be like a female Sherlock Holmes type story but it didn't feel like it. It felt like a fairly generic Victorian era detective story and the main characters gender didn't really have anything to do with it. A little odd and a touch unsatisfying at the end it's not one of the stronger stories.How the Marquis Got His Coat Back - Neil GaimanThis story is set in the world of London Below that Gaiman created for this book Neverwhere. It focuses on the Marquis de Carabas, an important character from that book, as he journeys through that strange word to get his coat back. A straightforward story Gaiman turns the simple into the amazing. Makes me want to re-read Neverwhere, or maybe watch the show again.Now Showing - Connie WillisI've read a lot of the Oxford Time Travel series by Connie Willis, and I hope she keeps writing them, but this was the first time I've read anything she has written outside that world. Set in the not-so-distant-future this is a world where movie theater chains, in a bid to stop ever decreasing ticket sales, turn theaters into veritable theme parks. It actually sounds pretty cool. But under the surface all may not be as it seems. This was a good story and I'd like to read more set in this world.The Lightning Tree - Patrick RothfussThe reason I first heard about this book was due to this story. I had seen Patrick Rothfuss giving a talk and he said he was working on a story about his character Auri for an upcoming short story book. But then he realized it wouldn't fit and decided to write one about Bast instead (the Auri story becoming the novella, The Slow Regard of Silent Things). I like Bast and it's good to see more of him. The Auri tale was bittersweet, a little sad, a little happy. This story though it a lot happier, though there is a touch of sadness in Bast's life too. A great, simple story.The Rogue Prince, or, a King's Brother - George R.R. MartinThe final story of this collection is, of course, set in the massive world of Westeros. This one takes place around 170 years before the beginning of the Song of Ice and Fire books. I believe this is oldest time in Westeros history a story has been set. It is a prologue to the Dance of the Dragons, the civil war that caused the end of the dragons. Very confusing at times due to a lot of similar names (everyone was related to everyone) I felt there wasn't enough to sate my interest. I need to read the companion piece which immediately follows this one and was released in a similar anthology called Dangerous Women. It also makes me a little more impatient for the next Song of Ice and Fire novel, as well as the next Game of Thrones series.--------------------------------------------------------------------So overall what are my impressions of this book. About the usual for short story collections. Some good, some bad, some ok. There was enough good stories though to make me recommend reading it, and fans of Neil Gaiman, Patrick Rothfuss and George R.R. Martin will want to read it for sure.