George R. R. Martin's 'Rogues' is an epic collection of 21 (plus the intro) short stories written by 21 different authors. Mostly of the fantasy variety (14/21, by my count), and all centring around a rogue or two. Like any short story collection, I suppose, there were hits and misses. Some stories I loved, others I just found dull. All up, it averages at 3 stars. 3.2857 stars, to be specific. This collection features stories set in the worlds of Joe R. Lansdale's Hap and Leonard series, Paul Cornell's Jonathan Hamilton series, Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere, Patrick Rothfuss's The Kingkiller Chronicle series and George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series. The other 16 are all original stand-alone stories (as far as I'm aware...). Here are my opinions on the individual stories: Intro: "Everybody Loves a Rogue" by George R. R. Martin - just the introduction to the book, so I won't rate this one. I will say it introduced me to the term 'film-flam men' (as an alternative to rogue) which I enjoyed. 1. "Tough Times All Over" by Joe Abercrombie = 3 Stars. This story follows a mysterious package as it gets stolen again and again by a series of thieves. Very fun. 2. "What Do You Do?" By Gillian Flynn = 4.5 stars. A woman who gives fake fortunes for a living, after retiring from giving hand jobs due to carpal tunnel, agrees to cleanse a clients house of evil spirits. I had read this one previously (as "The Grownup") and rated it 3.5 stars as I was comparing it to Flynn's novels (which I love), but I rate it higher here as I'm more fairly comparing it to other short stories. 3. "The Inn of Seven Blessings" by Matthew Hughes = 3 stars. A thief in the woods steals the belongings of an unfortunate traveller. To his shock, he finds a tiny God among them, who he proceeds to assist in return for a little good luck. Fun and entertaining.4. "Bent Twig (A Hap & Leonard Adventure)" by Joe R. Lansdale = 4 stars. This story takes place within the world of Lansdale's Hap and Leonard series of books (now also a TV series, I believe). A man (Hap) goes on the search for his girlfriends druggie daughter after she goes missing. Trouble ensues. I liked this one a lot. I have not read any of the Hap and Leonard books previously but it did not matter for this story. 5. "Tawny Petticoats" by Michael Swanwick = 3 stars. Two con artists hold auditions for an assistant to help with pull off a scheme to steal a bunch of silver. A sort of fantasy "Hustle".6. "Provenance" by David W. Ball = 2.5 stars. 2 stories at once, an art thief is selling a Caravaggio to a client, while telling him the story of its journey and survival though WWII. An interesting premise with a very interesting ending, but I did find it a little dull for the first half. 7. "Roaring Twenties" by Carrie Vaughn = 3 stars. Two women are drinking in a pub for the magically inclined, as a series of events happens. Started off slow, I really enjoyed the middle, the ending left some unanswered questions. 8. "A Year and a Day in Old Theradane" by Scott Lynch = 3 stars. A retired criminal, of the slightly magical variety, is blackmailed into stealing a whole street, after yelling at the wrong guy whilst drunk. As the ex-leader of a close group of thieves, her friends all assist her in this one last job. 9. "Bad Brass" by Bradley Denton = 4.5 stars. A substitute teacher-slash-thief observes a group of his students attempting to sell the brass instruments (tubas, etc) recently stolen from their high school. I really enjoyed this story and am now keen to check out more of Denton's work. 10. "Heavy Metal" by Cherie Priest" = 2 stars. A guy gets called into a little town to investigate some strange happenings at the lake, which seems to be eating people. I just didn't get this one. It sounds like a great concept for a cool little horror story, but it was just all very strange, and weirdly religious and environmentally focused. 11. "The Meaning of Love" by Daniel Abraham = 2 stars. 2 people are living in a small apartment in a tall, industrial city filled with poverty, crime and magic. The guy (a prince on the run) falls in love with a girl he's only seen from afar, who is about to be sold to the workhouse. The other person (of unspecified gender, who is secretly in love with the prince) attempts to save her to make the prince happy. A good story, but just not my thing. A little boring for me.12. "A Better Way To Die" by Paul Cornell = 2 stars. This is the fourth story in Cornell's Jonathan Hamilton series of short stories. In a world where people can travel through portals to parallel worlds (due to 'foreigner' (alien) technology), one man is introduced to a younger version of himself, and proceeds to challenge him to a risky game of cards (because what else would you do if you just met another version of yourself from a parallel world, right??). Didn't really enjoy this one, nor did it reeeally make sense to me. I have not read any of the other stories from the Jonathan Hamilton series- I don't think that's important as this reads like a standalone but I can't comment on whether the other stories explain the whole parallel world thing better, so it actually makes sense. 13. "Ill Seen in Tyre" by Steven Saylor = 3 stars. An older man and his apprentice, who are on a journey visiting all the wonders of the world, stop off at a bar in Tyre to buy a magic spell book. 14. "A Cargo of Ivories" by Garth Nix = 2 stars. 2 thieves magically break into a house and attempt to steal a crate of ivory statues, only to run into another thief with the same mission. This one just wasn't really my thing. 15. "Diamonds from Tequila" by Walter Jon Williams = 4 stars. After his fake-girlfriend is shot dead while on set in Mexico, an actor proceeds to investigate, accidentally getting caught up in a bit of a drug war. I enjoyed this one. 16. "The Caravan to Nowhere" by Phyllis Eisenstein = 3.5 starship. A teleporting minstrel joins a travelling caravan across the desert on a journey to get salt, and something much more addictive. 17. "The Curious Affair of the Dead Wives" by Lisa Tuttle = 4 stars. 2 Private investigators take on a case for a little girl, looking for her dead sister who she's sure is still alive. This is a good one. 18. "How the Marquis Got His Coat Back" by Neil Gaiman = 4 stars. This story takes place in the world of Gaiman's Neverwhere - immediately afterwards, specifically. The Marquis de Carabas's signature coat was unfortunately sold while he was 'dead' so he goes on a hunt to find it. Trouble ensues. I actually HAVE read Neverwhere, and while I think that did make me enjoy this story even more than I otherwise would have, I don't believe it is necessary in order to enjoy and understand this story. 19. "Now Showing" by Connie Willis = 4.5 stars. Set in the near future, a girl runs into her ex-bf while at the cinema, trying to go see a movie, but all is not as it seems. I loved this very fun, cute little story, which is packed full of movie references galore. 20. "The Lightning Tree" by Patrick Rothfuss = 3.5 stars. Taking place in the world of Rothfuss's The Kingkiller Chronicles, this story follows the character Bast as he sits under the lightning tree trading things and favours for answers and information, and generally goes about his (rather horny) day, as everything begins to come together. I haven't read any of The Kingkiller Chronicle but didn't find that that seemed necessary in order to enjoy this story. 21. "The Rogue Prince, or, A King's Brother (a consideration of the early life, adventures, misdeeds, and marriages of Prince Daemon Targaryen, as set down by Archmaester Gyldayn of the Citadel of Oldtown)" by George R. R. Martin = 4 stars. Taking place in the world of Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series, this story goes into the history of the Targaryen house, focusing mostly on Daemon and Viserys (as well as others), and the events leading up to the start of the series. Again, I haven't read any of the A Song of Ice and Fire series yet, but I HAVE seen every episode of Game of Thrones. I think this story would be very confusing if you have done neither of those, but then again probably not many people reading this anthology will have done neither. Started off strong, finished strong, drifted dully in the middle.