So, anthologies can be kind of hard to like; there's always diverse variety of styles, there are bound to be a good percent of stories you don't really care for. Especially in Fantasy, where there are an overabundance of styles...its.rare to find an anthology that works the whole way through.Not that everything was a 4, but quite a few. No 1s. Out of 21! That makes this great.edited to add story reviews:Joe Abercrombie's “Tough Times All Over” - Instead of a single Rogue, Abercrombie has us following a certain 'package' all over his should-be well-known-by-Best Served Cold-fans town of Sipani "City of Fogs, City of Whispers" The package is passed around, and stolen, and passed back between multiple Rogues of the City,--great fun! Gillian Flynn “What Do You Do?” - Some other people I read this with didn't care for this story so much, but I thought it was fantastic! A 'massage parlor' worker who also tries to do psychic readings, which leads her into a con she attempts to pull, getting involved in a creepy-house story, only to get conned back. Super Fun!Matthew Hughes “The Inn of the Seven Blessings” - I sometimes question the motives and means on this one, but it was still an interesting story about a reluctant hero who accidentally gets involved in a quest where he saves some people and escapes from cannibals... I find reluctant hero books amusing, so I enjoyed it.Joe R. Lansdale “Bent Twig” - Apparently the main characters in this world,Hap and Leonard, are in a lot of Lansdale's stories. Although I had never read any of these stories before, I was able to follow along as they set out to rescue the crack addicted daughter of a lover. Fun in the action sense as they battle their way into a rescue, but not as memorable for me. Maybe if I knew the characters better....Michael Swanwick's “Tawny Petticoats” - In an alternate New Orleans filled with animal headed people and slave zombies,where two con men try to pull a scam, and proceed to hire a beautiful women who of course plays them out of their cash. Predictable but a ton-o-fun. Reminded me of that Steve Martin movie....David Ball's “Provenance” - The narration shows the journey of a painting through the centuries, including its WWII theft by Nazis, and various thieves and two german brothers. A great idea, but a little too much telling rather than showing. Carrie Vaughn's “The Roaring Twenties” - A speakeasy in prohibition times, featuring a couple witches trying to hide from the Feds. I thought it was fun, but it didn't really suck me in. Scott Lynch's “A Year and a Day in Old Theradane” - I couldnt really get into the Gentlemen Bastard series, so Im not sure if these characters were in it at all, but it was a fun story about resolving a curse by stealing a street. I liked all these characters! Someone tell me if they are in a book somewhere? The world building was great tooBradley Denton's “Bad Brass” - Foe some reasons, musical instruments have become fodder for trade, and a high schools tuba section is basically being fought over by criminal forces, leading a high school substitute teacher to tryto impress his ex-wife by getting it all back. A cute story! Cherie Priest's “Heavy Metal” -Maybe it is me, and there is some reference that I am missing, but I really didn't get it. Daniel Abraham's “The Meaning of Love” (the author who writes as James S.A. Corey with Ty Franck) fantasy set in a city full of Rogueish types, where our Rogue sets up his (unrequited)love interest with the Rogue he pines for, while battling a contestof wits with Bounty hunters, slavers, and a poisoner.Not a lot of action, but a good setting and story. Paul Cornell's “A Better Way to Die” follows a spy that finds his self from another dimension. (I think) 19th century British empire steampunk culture. There was a LOT of exposition, and I found it hard to keep going. I probably missed something but it didn't work for me. I think this character is in other books and there was just some background I didn't know.Steven Saylor's “Ill Seen in Tyre” - two travelers are in the city of Tyre, and get involved with some scheme involving an invisibility potion. I saw it coming and was kind of bored. Garth Nix's “A Cargo of Ivories” - a different story where a knight, a puppet, and something named Rosie are all after some little ivory statues, some of which contain a god. It is only the hunting the pieces down part of the story, it seemed to be missing something.Walter Jon Williams “Diamonds From Tequila” - I so loved this one! A 'freakish' movie actor becomes a reluctant hero after his girlfriend/costar is killed and he figures it out before the police do. Some futuristic things, but mostly modern who done it, how do we fix it and get drunk story, Great characterization and idea.Phyllis Eisenstein's “The Caravan to Nowhere” - I am not familiar with this author at all, but this is a teleporting 'Bard' story, which I find interesting. The protagonist Alaric the Minstrel seems well rounded, are their other stories about him? Anyway, here he gets involved with a caravan going to pick up illegal drugs, and the contest of wills between the caravan driver and his son. Lisa Tuttle's “The Curious Affair of the Dead Wives”-This took a few pages to get going, but was an interesting mystery using that system of grave bells in coffins (Just in case you weren't dead) to fulfil a piggish mans bigamist dreams. It didn't all make sense, and it had a lot of those Holmesian clues in where the reader knew nothing until the reveal, but it was an interesting story.Neil Gaiman's “How the Marquis Got His Coat Back” This is set in the Neverwhere world, featuring The Marquis. There are mushroom people, slaves, The Elephant from Elephant and Castle, and some new baddies called the Sheperds. I loved it!Connie Willis “Now Showing” Sometimes Willis can be hysterically funny, and sometimes her joking comes off a little morbid, and luckily this falls into the former category. A pair of young lovers discover fraud in the movie-house business...almost slapstick in a way, but enjoyable none the less.Patrick Rothfuss “The Lightning Tree” A day-in-the-life story about Bast, from Rothfuss's Name of the Wind. IF you've read that book, you will love this.George R.R. Martin “The Rogue Prince, or, a King's Brother” -I was really excited for and most let down by this one. It was written in a very historic-document type way, mostly filled with facts readers of the series already knew. If it had been adapted into an actual story, it could have been so much fun!