“Sometimes the braver thing is to accept help when you've been made to believe you shouldn't need it.”4⭐Well,what did u expect? An Alexandra Bracken book that's bad. Nope, not possible. I really like this book. It was super fast-paced and I had soo much fun reading thisPlot As their punishment for their mistakes, the nine greek gods are forced to walk the earth in their mortal form and protect themselves from hunters who are desperate to kill the gods and take the powers for themselves! The Agon happens every seven years and it is the time when u should be scared! Its been 7yrs since Lore fled the Agon, seven years since her family died and seven years since she started a normal life. But now as the Agon approaches, Castor her friend whom she long gave up for dead, and the Greek goddess Athena seek out her help. With a new shot at revenge for her family, Lore enters the Agon to finally settle the score and prevent great loss.Lore must now fight to protect not only herself but also her friends in this deadly game.World I had no idea about the greek world before I read this book. So it came as a huge surprise and I enjoyed it<3 The legends were twisted and super fun!The world was really good and ................Basically it was awesome!Writing I adore Bracken's writng and this book was no exception! The story was well built and had a good flow. Initially, it was super confusing bcz I had no Idea abt the Greek legends, but I caught up!“Fear is a foreign land I shall never visit and a language that will never cross my tongue.”“It wasn't that anger was inherently good or bad. It could lend power and drive and focus, but the longer it lived inside you unchecked, the more poisonous it became.” We stan!Romance“I was born knowing how to do three things - how to breathe, how to dream, and how to love you.”Well I was born knowing how to sleep, eat and fangirl lolAnyways.. Who doesn't love friends to lovers? I loved the romance. It was perfectly balanced as the sub plot! I love Lore and Castor and ofc Miles and Van.Lets talk charactersLore is awesome! I adore her and she is a great MC. I mean she fights for a living. If hse ain't cool, then who is? Watching her make choices and solve problems was super satisfying!Castor ! Adding him to my fictional boyfriends list! Cas is super cute nd I love him. He has a lot of problems and watching him solve them was super. Having acquired Apollo's power, he is not condescending! He is mature nd not power-hungry like the majority of the characters!Miles the best friend everyone deserves. I wish I had a friend like him! He is super supportive and he is tht person we cant help but love. Van ! First I was scared tht he would because a love triangle. But the moment he started talking to Miles, the energy was palpable. I started loving him and his relationship with Miles is awesome!Athena and Iro were also great side characters. They play an important part in the story and I loved reading abt them!Final thoughtsWas this book good ? YesDoes it deserve the hype : Kind ofRecommended for anyone looking for a super fast paced book that kinda reminds you of the Hunger games!This is my reviewNow I shall go read the greek legends!Thank u *bows*