I’ve been thinking a lot lately about why the  Harry Potter series is so damn good. I love it. And it’s had an incredible amount of success. Why? What makes it so damn special? Well for me, the answer is simple. It’s so great because J.K Rowling knows exactly how to speak to her reader. She begins her story by showing the reader an incredibly boring world; it’s reality: it’s mundane, grey, tasteless and monotonous. So, in essence, it’s everyday life. It’s just the crap that every kid has to deal with, and adults too. Well, maybe to an extreme with the abuse and coldness that Harry receives, but you get my point. Life sucks for him. But then she reveals what every child longs for; she reveals a world of mystery reeling with the fantastic and wondrous things she writes. Under the normal boring world there is hidden a better world, a more exciting world: a world of magic. Thus, Rowling turns off the realism and starts writing fantasy, and this is where she completely grabbed me. Harry receives an invitation to a school of magic, a world of wonder, and to quote Roald Dahl’s Willy Wonker, “a world of pure imagination.” Despite his rough upbringing, nasty experience with several bullies, his awful tutelage in potions class, and living in constant fear of an evil sorcerer who wishes to murder Harry and all his friends, he actually has a brilliant time at Hogwarts. He makes wonderful friends and learns much about life along the way. By the end he understands the power of love, the true meaning of sacrifice, and the follies of judging someone on face value. I didn’t read this when I was a child. I read these books two years ago in my very late teens. I considered myself an adult. I considered myself mature. When I read these I came to the realisation that that’s not necessarily a good thing. Childhood is the time when once is most free, and perhaps when the imagination is at its peak. These books brought backs lots of memories, memories of being at school and imagining a better world. As a child I longed for adventure. Being the fantasy geek that I was (and am) I wished for Narnia and Middle Earth. I wished for something more than the drudgery of everyday life. So I was a weird kid. I was a day-dreaming introvert, I probably still am. Well, my point is, these books reminded me of my inner child, and the wonders that run through fantasy and children’s literature. I could go on to talk about the awesome magic system, the perfectly written characters and the brilliance of the plots of each individual book, but to do so would be to do an injustice to the wonder of the writing. I’m going to be posting individual reviews for each book in the series at some point soon to explain more in depth things, and exactly what I like about each book. But, for now, I just kind of wanted to say that this series is awesome. So yeah, I think I’ve done that. My review has somehow turned into a semi-autobiographical piece. Not sure how that happened, but I guess with some books, the books that move you and affect you deeply, you can’t describe without talking about yourself. Some books stay with you, some books even haunt you, and some books become a part of you. Damn, that was deep, though it’s true. Only a real book lover would get this. A great book is like a great piece of music; you hear it in your dreams and carry it with you as you walk: it becomes a part of you. And my inner child will always be inattentive to the real world and dreaming of a faraway place like Hogwarts. So, like I said at the beginning, J.K Rowling knows exactly how to speak to her reader. This gif says it all to me: