Is Among Others the story of a girl who can use magic, talk to faeries and has a wicked witch for a mother? Or is it the story of a girl who has a abusive mother, a father who ran away when she was a baby and whose twin died in a tragic car accident only a year before?When we join Morwenna's diary she is being shuffled off to her estranged father's house after an incident with her mother. She hobbles with a walking stick and can tell that everyone thinks she is a cripple. She has never met her father before, nor his three sisters who she suspects to be three magic users themselves, but not good magic. But she finds a fellow reader in her father who has an extensive SF collection that she adores. The three aunts pay for Morwenna to attend boarding school and which she attends with minimal worry. In a way it is better than being in the same house as her aunts. At school she makes very few friends, but finds some fellow souls in the form of a SF reading group at the local library.This is a very low key book plot-wise, it is more a coming of age book. Morwenna comes to find new love and friendship that she never expected to meet away from her home. There is no doubt that she is a very emotionally and even physically damaged person, and past events are discussed at certain parts in the book. But Jo does a brilliant job of dancing the line between truth and fiction in a way that is always on the side of the fantasy being true, but not enough for you to discount the whole diary as the warped reality of a damaged teenager. You are enchanted so much that you are willing to believe that Morwenna can converse with the faeries and that magic does occur in her life. There is no doubt that this book is as charming as they come and is filled with love for books and the understanding of people who just don't fit in. But it is much more. The characters are distinct and three-dimensional and their motives are well known. There is also a lot of nostalgia to be had being set in 1980. Here was a book lover who may not know about a favourite author's new work until she managed to stumble across it in a book store in the city. Or who relies on the limited supplies of the local library, the school library and the second hand bookshop in town. There certainly is no more romantic book hunting in the age of ordering online from any title in print and having it on your doorstep a couple of days later, or even of ebooks. I read the book a couple of years ago when the paperback edition first came out and I was sceptical. I'm not the type to like a book about girls who talk to faeries. But i fell in love. So this time I listened to the audiobook which was read by a Welsh lady. It definitely added a whole new spin on the story. Her voice was so distinctive. So I'd recommend this to all book lovers, especially those of you out there who spent their youths trawling second-hand bookstores in the pre-internet age looking for that book in that series that you loved, or the out of print graphic novel that you saw once in the schoolyard.To borrow from Morwenna "I thought it was brilliant".