This novel was a delight. I fell in love with the precocious Morwenna, a Welsh girl whose life was turned upside down after her twin sister died. Morwenna was sent to live with her father in England, and then ends up at boarding school.Morwenna is a bright girl who loves to read, and her opinions about books were some of my favorite parts of the novel. (She loves science fiction, which I haven't read a lot of, but I enjoyed her enthusiasm.) Morwenna has trouble making friends at school, but eventually she finds her own group when she joins a sci-fi book club at the town library.So far, this novel sounds normal, right? That's because I haven't mentioned the fairies, or magic, or the fact that Morwenna's mom is a witch who may or may not have tried to kill her and her sister. Morwenna believes in fairies and can practice magic with their help. I loved this paragraph from the opening chapter:Think of this as a memoir. Think of it as one of those memoirs that's later discredited to everyone's horror because the writer lied and is revealed to be a different colour, gender, class and creed from the way they'd made everybody think. I have the opposite problem. I have to keep fighting to stop making myself sound more normal. Fiction's nice. Fiction lets you select and simplify. This isn't a nice story, and this isn't an easy story. But it is a story about fairies, so feel free to think of it as a fairy story. It's not like you'd believe it anyway.I listened to this on audio, which was excellent. It was performed by Katherine Kellgren, who did beautiful Welsh and English accents. This book earns my highest compliment, which is that I didn't want it to end. I wanted the story to keep going. I wanted to watch Morwenna grow up and continue to hear about her reading and to find out what happens with her and the cute boy. I generally don't read series, but I hope someday the author writes a sequel.I think anyone who likes bookish stories and/or smart girls would appreciate this novel. I highly recommend it.(Many thanks to GR friend Brendon for recommending this gem of a novel.) Favorite Quote"Interlibrary loans are a wonder of the world and a glory of civilization. Libraries really are wonderful. They're better than bookshops, even. I mean bookshops make a profit on selling you books, but libraries just sit there lending you books quietly out of the goodness of their hearts."