i am at a total loss about how this book got published. this is not a book! in the sense of a novel, i mean. it's the diary of an articulate, well-read sci-fi diehard teenager talking about what she did and what she read every day for a year. this account of her every day life is sprinkled with unimpressive encounters with fairies, because apparently in this world, welsh people are kinda down with spirit creatures. the other reason this isn't a book is that it's an epilogue to a story we never get to hear. mori, our main gal, is living with a father she barely knows and in boarding school having fled from her evil witch (literal, not metaphorical) mother. why? well, sometime before mori's boring daily diary begins, there was a huge magical battle between good (mori & her twin sister) and evil (the mother), which left mori with a bad leg and a dead sister. you'd think that at least some of the book would explain why the mother was evil, why she hated her kids, why she waged magical war on them, and just generally, what kind of magic we're talking about. but nada. no explanations of any sort -- for ANYTHING. instead, this is what we get: school sucked today. my classmates are so lame. today, my mother tried to kill me in my sleep. that sucked, too. my leg hurts. i went to the woods and talked to a fairy. but they're really cryptic. wow, ursula le guin's awesome. this lesbian is hitting on me but i'm straight. how can anyone think heinlein is authoritarian? i wish i knew my father were better. i touched this guy's dick at a party and he called me a slut so guess i won't be seeing him again. my grandad's pretty cool though. i miss my sister but i want to live. let me go re-read lord of the rings for the six hundreth time. sci-fi book club, yay! my aunts keep trying to get my ears pierced. but you can't see fairies if your ears are pierced. i think my aunts are evil. i am not exaggerating. this is the entire book. WTF. i'm really kind of bitter because i kept a journal growing up. maybe if i added the occasional gnome on the side, i could get that published, too?