reread 01/10/2022i almost forgot how much of a Journey the last few chapters were. goodness i really love how big brain this series is. excited to finally pick up where i left off and read the third book!02/16/2019 Thank you to Edelweiss and the publisher for giving me an advanced copy for an honest review. It's official: I am now declaring this series as one of my favorites. When I was approved for an eARC of A Winter's Promise last year, I didn't expect it to steal my heart as it did. At first, all the talk of Rupture and the atmospheric writing confused me so much. The protagonists also seemed so unconventional—Ophelia is a clumsy and timid Animist capable of "reading" any object she touches and Thorn is a block of ice brought to life who doesn't seem to show any signs of emotion whatsoever. Now, I AM ABSOLUTELY AND UNAPOLOGETICALLY SMITTEN with this world and its protagonists. I have read hundreds of books but this series, by far, is one of the most special because it has captivated me with its elaborate world-building, unique magic system, page-turning court intrigue, and complex characters. I was so excited to read this sequel and I'm so happy that it met my expectations. The Missing of Clairedelune brought me back to the Pole, where the court of Citaceleste is as chaotic as ever but there's an underlying threat brimming on the surface as some courtiers disappear one after the other without any trace. I loved the mystery subplot in this sequel (allthough I did guess the culprit in the end). This book also gave more depth to the family spirit of the Pole, Farouk, and I was once again amazed by his peculiarity. He's an immortal revered by everyone but he's also gravely imperfect with his forgetful memory. The slow burn romance between Thorn and Ophelia also kept me on my toes. They make a very... unusual (this is an understatement tbh) couple but I'm drawn to them all the same. I must also admit that I have a soft spot for Thorn. He's as affectionate as a sack of potatoes but his lines always punch me straight in the chest: “You want to solve every problem on your own,” she continued in a choked voice, “even if it means using people like chess pieces, even if it means making yourself hated by the whole world.”“And you, do you still hate me?”“I don’t think so. Not anymore.”“Good,” Thorn grunted between his teeth. “Because I’ve never made such an effort not to be hated by someone.”  “I trust only the science of probabilities. I have studied mathematical statistics, combinatorial analysis, mass function, random variables, and they have never held any surprises for me. You don’t seem fully to grasp the destabilizing effect that someone like you can have on someone like me.” The stakes are also higher in this book, as the truth of the Book and God's motives for breaking the world are addressed. The bigger picture is finally starting to unravel and I'm looking forward to the next books to shed some light to all the mysteries remaining to be solved.   The Missing of Clairedelune  is a page-turning read with enough action, intrigue, and a bit of romance to spice up your reading experience. I highly recommend this series to everyone as it obviously deserves more recognition and love.