Hey, come with me, do not ask and do not be surprised at anything. Even if something seems to you completely unbelievable - take it on the chin. Meet the city which you will not find in the coloured folders, places you will not find in any guidebook. Prepare yourself for delirious trip, apocalypse, armageddon or whatsoever. Just follow me. It is my first Miéville and I really didn't know what to expect. Story starts interestingly when we are about to visit Natural History Museum. It’s really fabulous place, from the outside we can admire its impressive, castle- or cathedral- like architecture to finally enter the huge hall, surrounded by arcaded galleries, pillars, stairs. With the gigantic skeleton of dinosaur in the front of you. When I’m visiting this place and see stuffed or petrified creature I always think :  poor bugger, what did you do that they have done it to you ?  But let’s leave aside my personal digression and come to the point. So, we are in The Darwin Centre with our guide, young curator Billy to find out that, horror of horrors !, main attraction, pride and joy of the museum, giant squid, tenderly named Archie just gone. Dissolved into the thin air. Just so . Later is even more intriguing. Hideous but at the same time peculiar crimes, special police squads, squirrels ( don’t ask ), Tattoo Man, underground city, prophets, wizards, gods, worshippers of all kinds of religion and cults. Can you imagine yourself to worship a squid ? Well, as classic said once  there are more things in Heaven and Earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy  . China Miéville is for sure talented writer endowed with unbridled imagination.  Kraken  then is a mixture of thriller, horror, urban fantasy. But from some moment novel seems to be too thick, not to say just overfilled. Too much of everything. We are overwhelmed with events and actions, we seem to be lost in the jumble of ideas and characters. And, especially in the second part of the book , it's hard to resist the impression that the author himself was a bit lost and had not coherent vision of created world too . And though plot goes on, however, it loses its clarity. Just one wanted to say  oh mighty Kraken, what the hell is going on ?  It's really a very decent reading though left me a bit unsatisfied and at the same time satiated. Does it make any sense ?