Chapter 1: Wow, this is kind of cool. Everybody says China Miéville is the shit. He owns the GR comment boards. He can kick ass in any genre, or no genre, or bend genres to fit his will. Not to mention his good looks, right? I mean, the dude is hawt with a capital H. Hubba-Fuckin-Hubba. At least, that's what I've been told; personally I think he looks like a rude, low-class French waiter who hasn't bathed and has been relegated to peeling potatoes in the back alley where he can't scare off the customers (although the customers wonder why their potatoes smell like cigarettes and BO). So I'm not prepared to just go with the flow, here. I made up my own mind about his looks and I'll make up my own mind about his writing, too, thank you very much. Still I come into this with some pretty damn high expectations given the love affair all my GR friends are having with this potato-peeler right now. And indeed Kraken starts off pretty cool. Original concept and original writing style, I think a very real writing style that sounds like me and my friends talking (only with various British accents and slang).Chapter 2: Hmm. Interesting. Very cool. I like the SRC, especially Collingswood. I want to be Collingswood's lover. (I assume being Collingswood's lover goes something like this: I follow her around and shine her shoes, maybe wipe her ass, while I beg for her to simply look at me without something resembling utter contempt, and she barely tolerates my presence while occasionally spitting in my face, shoving dog shit in my mouth, and putting out her cigarette in my eyeball. But I'm okay with that.)Chapters 3, 4, 5, et seq.: This book is full of very short chapters, and the chapter breaks come when you would expect a bad TV drama to break for commercials. I assume that's on purpose, to add to the levity or something, but it bugs me.Chapters 6, 7, 8, et seq.: Still cool. I'm not sure I understand what the fuck is happening, but I like it!Chapters 20-50: Umm who are those people and why do I care? Are they really necessary or are they just Miéville messing around for his own amusement?Chapters 50-99: Like I said, really short chapters, and lots of them. But also just lots of words and odd characters and weird shit happening.Chapters 100-199: Okay now who the fuck are those people? Is Miéville just fucking with me now?Chapters 200-299: Well at least now we're getting somewhere, and it's mostly interesting, though there are still way too many characters and weird things about the universe to remember.Chapters 300-399: Interesting and cool and whatnot but I'm just ready for it to end. The protagonists are hitting one dead end after another, following this thread to that thread and back again.Chapters 400-499: Somebody just tell me how it's going to end. Please???Chapter 500: Wow! The climax is underway and I'm surprised! It's almost cool enough to make the wait worth it. I like where this is going!Chapter 501: Wait a second … will somebody please tell me what the fuck just happened? It looked like a great ending then this dude did this shit and talk about deus machina … and I don't even understand exactly what happened or how it worked. Chapter 502: Okay, there's some room left in the book to explain how the hero did what he did to stop the bad guy from doing what he wanted to do. Miéville is going to explain it, isn't he? Isn't he? Chapter 503: Nope, no explanation. I still don't get how or why that worked in the universe he set up, unless the hero is just supposed to be God hisownself.Chapter 504: Well I don't totally understand but at least it's ending and everybody seems happy – hey, hold on … what's? … who's? … why?Chapter 503: So that was the real ending? Huh? How does that make sense given this and that and some other things that happened earlier? I don't get it. Very disappointing.