Edit: If I read this now, I would probably give it two stars. But I read it over a year ago when I was basically a walking dumpster. Hence the high rating. Theodosia, called Theo by most, is a princess of a forgotten land, Astrea, whose inhabitants are now slaves to Kalovaxia. She is imprisoned in the Kalovaxian castle, where she is forced to wear a crown of ashes as a sort of subtle threat to the Astreans. You can probably guess what happens next. Theo teams up with a group of rebels, they set up some complicated schemes, she escapes the castle, they gather an army, et cetera. Couldn't get more basic than that. This was derivative, basic, cliche, and cringeworthy at times, but I still had a good time reading it. It was a lot fresher than a lot of YA fantasy (except for the love triangle, kill me now). It definitely wasn't a masterpiece, but it was mindless fun, and sometimes I need that in my life.Ash Princess, while riddled with plot holes, was actually a lot more realistic than other books I've read. It never sent the message that you can always get everything you want, which is a pet peeve I have with a lot of books. I'm tired of things ending up happy in the end, or even worse, if the aLmIgHtY lUrV solves everything. Theo loses Soren, Crescentia, and her entire way of life. She's in a pretty tough situation by the end. What I hated most about this book was the absolutely horrid, unnecessary, cheesy love triangle. We have Blaise, the Childhood Friend. We have Soren, the Cute New Mysterious Guy With a Soft Heart. Who will Theo choose?? Um.No. CHILDHOOD-FRIENDS-TO-LOVERS IS NOT COOL. You knew each other when you were little and now you're in lurvvv??? One, it's concerning that an adult fell in love with the child version of their friend. Two, I don't buy it. You know what's worse? Instalove-childhood-friends-to-lovers. Or "I've loved you since I first laid eyes on you." No. That's just weird. Besides the pointless love triangle, the plot had more holes than Swiss cheese: 1. Spiritgems are jewels that give the user powers, which are dramatically increased if you know how to use them properly. The Kalovaxians have no idea how to do so. Conveniently, Theo does. According to her, Fire gems can easily destroy the entire palace. There are hundreds of Spiritgems in the castle. Theo can easily swipe one. She's done so before. So why isn't she?! If you have Spiritgems, use them. And what's her argument against it? She doesn't want the gods to damn her in the afterlife. She has thousands of Astreans relying on her! At this point, she doesn't even believe in the gods. So why is she holding back? She could use a Fire gem, burn down the palace, and her problems would be solved. Her people are no longer slaves, her enemies are all dead, other kingdoms are free from Kalovaxia. It's not that hard.2. Why is Theo still alive? There doesn't seem to be a reason. Apparently, the Kaiser is using her to keep the Astrean rebels under control, but it's clearly not working. Besides, why should they care about this one girl trapped in a castle, doing absolutely nothing to help them? It's not like they even hear about her torture. Plus, Theo is definitely not being treated like a prisoner, apart from her punishments. She lives in luxurious rooms and wears gorgeous clothes. She's even allowed to make friends with nobles. This isn't a great way to run your country, Kaiser. She's doing nothing except amusing him occasionally. Even for the Kaiser, that isn't a good enough reason to keep her alive. She's just a risk to his carefully crafted empire. 3. Soren is way too nice to be a Kalovaxian Prinz. From what we've seen of the other nobles, there's absolutely no one to teach him to be this kind. They're all spoiled, entitled, or just plain cruel. I doubt his mother would have the guts to be a good role model, anyway. So where does he get this strange kindness? If you grow up around brats with no other exposure to anyone else, you're going to become a brat, too. This isn't rocket science. This was a good guilty pleasure read, but it definitely had a lot of flaws. I probably won't read the sequels. But it was a pretty decent book. 3 stars