This review contains no spoilers 💫Ash princess follows Theo, a girl whose country was colonised by the Kalovaxians. Theo is essentially Queen but since the murder of her mother and a shift in power, she’s been demoted to ‘ash princess’, kept in the same castle where she once was royalty in. Subjective grade- 85% Plot - 90%Writing & dialogue- 85%Worldbuilding - 80%Character development - 60%Character relationships - 75%Subjective grade:I enjoyed this book a lot. I thought that the political atmosphere of this book was interesting and Theo was actually an interesting character. Also, the magic system reminded me a lot of Avatar the Last Airbender so that’s a plus.  Plot:This book touches on a lot of heavy topics like racism, colonisation, discrimination and privilege. We see elements of privilege in Cress who time and time again ignores the brutality Theo faces because of her race. She basks in her clear privilege and avoids talking about any of these issues because it's too ‘uncomfortable’ for her. Sound familiar right?Oh, and how the Kalovaxians move from country to country after looting the last of all its resources. *ehrm* Britain, 16th century *ehrm* This book did a great job of discussing all said topics, embedding them in the plot itself. If I had read this book when I was younger, I doubt I would've been able to see the full scope of this book.Worldbuilding:Political environments play a large role in worldbuilding and I really enjoyed the politics in this book. Which is to say I liked the world-building quite a bit. The magic system was explained to some extent but it wasn't elaborated on. This is hella irritating because half the book I was there like "Oo, shiny rock that has firepower. Oooo shiny rock that makes people pretty, nice." Character development:Theo’s development felt extremely rushed. It didn’t make much sense that she went from doing nothing for her people to putting her life on the line in a matter of a few chapters. I get that the story only really starts after she’s decided to stand up for herself and her people but if the author had taken a little more time elaborating on Theo’s inner conflict, it would’ve felt more realistic. Character relationships:Where things fell a bit short was the romance. Why oh why was Blaise even there? Theo x Blaise is giving major Katniss x Gale vibes and I’m not here for it. But Theo and Soren.... amazing. They are what Cal and Mare wish they were.I said what I said.Cress and Theo’s friendship is extremely toxic. Cress is a clear example of a bystander and that in itself is bad, but it gets worst. Theo thinks that she should be happy that Cress had befriended her so she doesn’t speak out about everything clearly wrong with how she’s treated by Cress. And I had a strong impression that Cress had only befriended Theo so she could have someone to rant to without having to deal with their issues as well. A one-sided friendship. Overall, this book did have its ups and downs but I did enjoy it a lot so 4.3 stars!