Meet our two main characters--Lira: In one move, I plunge my fist into the prince’s chest and pull out his heart.Elian: Technically, I’m a murderer, but I like to think that’s one of my better qualities.That should give you a sense of what to expect. To Kill a Kingdom is a pretty dark fantasy for YA and it tells a compelling, vicious story without falling into all the usual tropes. I was pleasantly surprised.Lira is a siren princess, daughter of the Sea Queen, and known amongst humans as Princes' Bane - because of all the princes whose hearts she has ripped from their chests. I mean it literally; not talking romantics here. When she disobeys her mother, the Sea Queen punishes Lira by turning her into a human. Floating out on the sea with her new pair of legs, Lira is picked up by Prince Elian's ship.Elian is a siren killer and adventurer. He does not want to be bound to the throne he is set to inherit. What he wants more than anything is to put a stop to the Princes' Bane. When it seems like an old fairy tale might hold the secret to finding the Crystal of Keto - and putting a stop to the Sea Queen and her sirens forever - Elian sets out on a perilous journey to uncover it.These two unlikely companions are thrown together by their strange circumstances. Each wants to kill the other but only Lira is aware of both of their identities. I really enjoyed the developing relationship between them that grew through sarcasm-laced banter. Both are somewhat morally questionable and Lira is a murderous anti-heroine bordering on straight-up villain. There's also a band of lovable and funny secondary characters onboard ship.“That’s the thing about risks,” Kye says. “it’s impossible to know which ones are worth it until it’s too late.”A romance grows but it is extremely slow burn. I would not recommend this book for readers who like their fantasy heavy on the romance. And, despite the obvious parallels that can be drawn with The Little Mermaid (Lira loses her siren song instead of her voice), I wouldn't recommend this for those looking for a retelling either. It's very different, and this "mermaid" definitely doesn't want to be human and bag a prince - unless by that you mean killing him. This prince is far more badass, too. There's lots I like here: anti-heroines, slow-burn romance, fairy tales that contain prophecies, fun banter and strong friendships. I only hope I don't get burned out on this influx of sea fantasies after I read my arcs of Sea Witch and These Rebel Waves.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube