"I like my rivers the way I like my enemies - slow, wide, and lazy."
Instead of going for three individual reviews, I thought it's better to do a series review for Magnus Chase. After all, there was little variation between the three books, aside from the continuation of plot. First two felt like 3.5-star reads where as the last one was definitely a near 4.5-stars, which concluded the series in a much better-than-expected manner. Oh, and very acceptable cliff-hangers at the ends of first two books.
"Nothing started a day better than a little breaking and entering."
We all know Riordan is one of the most consistent writers when it comes to world building, character development and that hilarious storytelling (assuming you've already done with PJO). Magnus Chase is no exception when it comes to these three characteristics. Simply put, he makes learning mythology a lot of fun. There was hardly a page in the entire trilogy that I could not laugh at, no matter how dire the circumstances were. Most of the characters were entertaining enough to keep one engaged, and the world building (or the modifications to the existing world) does not lack any creativity. With any other author, I might've said the humor was overdone but with Riordan, there's no such thing.And as always, Riordan had done his research well. The god tree along with the nine worlds, and other monsters are well placed throughout the story, enabling the reader to understand the Norse Mythology in a detailed way. Honestly, I think reading these mythology series is one of the best ways to get started in Greek, Roman and now Norse mythologies in an unforgettable manner. Just like with all the Greek and Roman gods, the modernization of the setting does not alter the experience at all.However, when compared to the Greek campaign, there are several things worth mentioning, starting with the plotlines. I'm not saying they were bad or boring or anything, but it just wasn't quite the PJO level. May be it was the underlying similarities. Nevertheless, it did feel a tiny bit repetitive at times. The pace was also a little too slow for my liking, especially after reading all three sub-series of camp half-blood. But in the rare event that you haven't read any of Greek/ Roman books, I'm almost certain that one could easily enjoy this series.
"I'd always slept with one eye open."
It was a nice touch to find a way to link Annabeth to this story, and then Percy too, which did make things super exciting for a while. I almost wished they could've taken a lengthier part in the story, though that probably would've overshadowed the main characters here, defeating the whole purpose. Still, it was nice to encounter them again. Another really good series by Riordan. If you belong in the intended age group OR if you haven't read PJO yet, this one would be an awesome read!
"You hear what you want to believe."