THIS REVIEW AND OTHERS ARE ALSO ON MY BLOGR A M B L EFirst up, it feels so good to be writing a review. I haven’t finished a book in a while (about a week, actually) so writing this makes me so happy. Life just sucks at the moment, makes it difficult to make time for a book when you’re packing all your stuff and trying to find a house. But, hey, what can you do?Okay, now fully into the ramble;Some books you truly want to be longer than a trilogy. The story of Magnus Chase is one of them for me. I know absolutely nothing about Norse mythology. Greek, Egyptian and Roman mythology I all knew about so reading Riordan’s other series were made easy by previous knowledge. Norse mythology was a big wide world of nothing for me. The only thing I really knew was Chris Hemsworth played Thor (my mum loves Chris Hemsworth). This series took me a while to get into and to learn the particular gods of this world, but once I was into it I was so completely in love with the characters.Riordan manages to weave challenges into a story that don’t become tiresome and add to the characters overall journey. He creates fresh characters in every series and their backstories will have you in tears. We don’t even get to learn everything throughout this book, simply get glimpses of the other characters while Magnus Chase attempts to stop Ragnarok.We have such a diverse cast of characters particularly throughout this series that it is the perfect middle-grade novel. Almost everyone can find themselves in this book or pieces of themselves which I think is perfect for children who are going through particular things that aren’t the ‘norm’. I can’t speak for any of the rep though, but I believe it is well done from what I’ve read (will hunt for own voices reviews).I really think Riordan’s series is important for the amazing plot and the characters throughout. I may be 20 in a couple months but I can’t stop myself from picking up these books and being completely engaged.P L O TThe thing about Riordan’s books is that you can’t say much about the plot without spoiling a whole lot. This book details Magnus and our well-known friends going on a journey to defeat Loki. Of course, nothing goes right and there are several side adventures that keep humour up and myself engaged as a reader.This was the perfect book for me to read at the current time. My family is going through some struggles right now and I am getting my wisdom teeth ripped out on Thursday, so I just need to keep myself distracted (but not too distracted, if that makes sense?).Riordan is one of the best writers for the plot, though. I need the plot to keep me engaged and entertained and never over the five years I’ve been reading his books has he let me down. I just love all the additions to the overall story and the even larger addition of humour. These books will get you smiling and giggling.Also, the romance in this book is one of my favourite romances in every book I’ve ever read. It was cute, sweet and completely relatable. It happens so organically and isn’t forced. The trauma between characters is never disregarded either, which I loved.C H A R A C T E R S#M A G N U S C H A S E I love Magnus Chase with all my heart. He is a character that isn’t the ‘chosen one’ or the son of the most well-known and best god of that particular mythology. He’s a bit of a weenie actually. He makes me laugh so hard and constantly keeps me on my toes with his snarky remarks or embarrassing moments.He truly grows in this book. He comes into his own and discovers more about himself and the other around him. I wish we got more of his grief, though. He has lost so much for such a young child and I would honestly be a wreck if it was me. I am blown away.The way he is such a caring individual as well. I mean, he is the son of a god who heals people, so it makes sense. I don’t know what to say, really. I just adore Magnus Chase. He is a sweetheart and I just want to hug him.#O T H E R SI’ve added in this others bit purely because there are so many other characters in this book. We have Alex, Sam, Blitzen, Hearthstone, Mallory, T.J., Gunderson and Jack. They are all incredibly important throughout this particular story. Making their mark and giving us a bit more information on characters that have felt neglected in the past two books.I particularly liked seeing Sam do Ramadam, it was interesting to have that different spiritual connection throughout the book that focuses on a mythology. Alex becomes a full-fledged character for me, as we learnt about his/her background. It was truly heartbreaking. The same goes as we learn about Mallory, T.J and Gunderson, how they all ended up in Valhalla.I’m not sure what to say, apart from the fact I may love the side characters more than I love Magnus Chase. Wild, right?O V E R A L LOverall, a phenomonal conclusion. It has left me desperately and anxiously wanting more. I can’t wait for Magnus to pop up in other books Riordan does. My only complaint would be, not enough Percy Jackson. I was really hoping the Greek and Norse worlds would have come together in this novel, but oh well, what can I do now? Anxiously await for Riordan’s next release and re-read every book he’s written.