After reading | October 11th, 2017:

“Sometimes you lie to deceive people. Sometimes you lie because you need the lie to become the truth.”

I cried. I actually cried and I’m so embarrassed to admit that I cried because it honestly wasn’t even that sad. I’m just such an emotional trainwreck, and I don't know what is wrong with me.BUT GOSH DARN IT THE FLYTING SCENE? AND THE OTHALA RUNE SCENE?My heart was just hit with all of the feels and I couldn’t help myself.This trilogy has been just so heartwarming and sweet and hilarious and I love all of the diversity and the friendships and the love, and I don’t know. I am happy.I am hopeful.I am satisfied.I’m so sad it’s over. I am going to miss the bravery that is Samirah al-Abbas, and the adorableness that is her and Amir. I am going to miss Blitzen and Hearthstone who are the true heroes. I am going to miss Alex Fierro who constantly changes but is always true to who they are. I am going to miss Mallory, TJ and Halfborn who have been through so much, but are so loyal and the best friends anyone could ask for.And most of all, I am going to miss the sunshine and sweetness that is Magnus Chase. I am so proud of these nerds, I will miss them all so much.I really hope it’s not the last we hear from the all the einherjar! 

"You can't hold onto hate forever. It won't do a thing to the person you hate, but it'll poison you, sure enough.”

-----Before reading | July 18th, 2017:Me after finishing Sword of Summer: okay, I'm actually totally on board with Magnus not having a love interest.Me after finishing Hammer of Thor: ASDFGHJKL SHIP SHIP SHIPGIVE ME MORE ALEX FIERROMy hopes for Ship of the Dead:≫ BEATRICE (Rick has officially dubbed them this, pass it on)≫ Blitzstone to be confirmed (I mean, were you not feeling those vibes in Hammer of Thor? Because it one hundred percent seems like they have feelings for each other)≫ more Loki (I hate him, but I love him)≫ Percy Jackson to be besties with all the einherjar (I hope him and Magnus will become best friends?? They have similar sassy personalities, but I don't know if Percy will be able to get over the fact that Magnus hates the color blue)(by the way, can we just talk about how Magnus Chase shares a name with Magnus Bane who is in love with Alec Lightwood? Malec and Malex? And Rick also dedicated the first book to Cassie which means they're friends and probably messing with us)