Haha I really like Jack. 
“Where's the gold?" I demanded. "Don't make me unleash my sword's playlist.” Annabeth frowned. "Percy's sword is a she?"Jack laughed. "Well, duh."Percy studied Riptide, though I could've told him from experience it was almost impossible to tell a sword's gender by looking at it."I don't know," he said. "Are you sure -?""Percy," said Alex. "Respect the gender.""Okay, fine," he said. "It's just kinda strange that I never knew.""On the other hand," Annabeth said, "you didn't know the pen could write until last year.""That's low, Wise Girl.” 
And I absolutely love the humor and sarcasm 
“In case you're wondering, Old York looks absolutely nothing like New York.It looks older.Magnus Chase, master of description. You're welcome.” 
This is most certainly not a relatable situation 
“That awkward moment when you jump out a window because your friend jumped out a window, then you remember that your other friend can fly.” This couldn't be truer“I think the hardest thing we can ever do is see someone for who they really are. Our parents. Our friends. Ourselves.” I love how Magnus can be funny even in the most dire situations:Malory sheathed her knives and signed to me, I have the walnut.That would have made a great code phrase if we were talking about a nuclear weapon or something. Unfortunately, she just meant she had the walnut
Me: "And I am most certainly loving this series. "Also Me: "When have I ever before not liked a Rick Riordan book ?"Me: "This can not be more true"I should honestly be ashamed, noticing how Samirah was so punctual and steadfast in all her prayers.It's kinda hard too believe how stupid Magnus is :
“Back when I was a regular mortal kid, I didn't know much about combat.I had some murky ideas that armies would line up, blow trumpets, and then march forward to kill one another in an orderly fashion. If I thought about Viking combat at all, I would envision some dude yelling, SHIELD WALL! and a bunch of hairy blond guys calmly forming ranks and merging their shields into some cool geometric pattern like a polyhedron or a Power Ranger Megazord.” 
I absolutely love the idea of a big yellow ship "
“Wow," said Samirah as we approached the dock. "You're right, Alex. That ship is really yellow."I sighed. "Not you, too."Alex grinned. "I vote we name it the Big Banana. All in favour?""Don't you dare," I said."I love it," Mallory said, throwing Alex a mooring line.Keen and Gunderson had emerged from belowdecks in an apparent truce, though both sported fresh black eyes."It's decided, then!" bellowed Halfborn. "The good ship Mikillgulr!"T.J. scratched his head. "There's an Old Norse term for big banana?""Well, not exactly," Halfborn admitted. "The Vikings never sailed far enough south to discover bananas. But Mikillgulr means big yellow. That's close enough!"I looked skyward with a silent prayer: Frey, god of summer, Dad, thanks for the boat. But could I suggest that forest green is also a great summery colour, and please stop embarrassing me in front of my friends? Amen. 
This book helped me survive two weeks' Maths and Physics' classes. For which I am very grateful. cocky_grinAnd not paying attention to these classes was my choice!!