✅✅ Angst!!!✅ Pace and plot✅ Hate-to-love (again)✅ Lara and Aren ❤️✅ Action and fighting ✅ Badass and ruthless main character ✅ World-building✅ Scheming and life-threatening situations✅ Plot twists ✅ New characters✅ Gorgeous cover

 “Trusting you was my mistake. Loving you was my mistake.” 

What an amazing book! What a wild ride! I couldn't put it down! ❤️The Traitor Queen picks up a few months after the end of The Bridge Kingdom. Lara made some big mistakes in the first book and now she is trying to make up for them, and find a way to redeem herself. 

She was the traitor queen. The reason Ithicana lost the bridge. The reason hundreds, if not thousands, of Ithicanians had perished.

I loved all the love/hate and the angst in this book. That, coupled with all the action kept me at the edge of my seat. I felt like crying for Lara at times, and I was so frustrated by the way she was treated (but at the same time I understand why they all hate her), but I enjoyed reading this book so much because of all these emotions and the angst.

“Forgive her. She loves you.” He dropped the old woman’s arm, feeling Lara’s gaze on him. Knowing she was listening.“She doesn’t know what love is.”“That’s why you should forgive her.”

The plot and the pace are great, and it was very easy to get absorbed into this adventure. There is still a political aspect weaved into the book, but it’s more about war and fighting rather than spying. The relationship aspect also takes a lot of room with Aren trying, but failing, to hate Lara, and Lara hating herself and trying to right her wrongs. The descriptions were slightly less atmospherical than in the first one, because Lara and Aren had to travel a lot, and could not spend long in one place, but at the same time, the world-building expanded, and we got to discover new places, which is always nice.

"There's no one in the world like you, you know.""No, there isn't." "Because there is only one Queen of Ithicana. Just as there is only one King. And if any of our enemies dare come for our kingdom, we will bring them to their knees."

There is a lot of action in this book! Nerve-wracking and heart-pounding moments. Lara is still a badass, and Aren shows us again how determined and fierce he is when comes the time to defend his country and his people. I missed the banter that we had in the first book, but the action and the pace of this book are so intense, that it definitely makes up for it! I couldn't put it down both times I read it. One thing that I disliked a tiny little bit is the constant time jumps in the first half of the book. What feels like a few days are actually weeks, and what feels like weeks are actually months. For example, I had the feeling that Aren spent a few weeks in captivity, but he spent months being a prisoner, the traveling in the desert part also feels like it happens in a few days, but it takes them weeks to reach their destination. I would have liked to have more character development during these long months of captivity or these long weeks together in the desert.

She was right, and he knew it. But in his heart, he knew that even if he never saw her again for the rest of his life, it would never be over.She would always be his queen.

Aren, while being amazing (and gorgeous), annoyed me a little in this book. I understand why he feels the way he does, I really do, but the fact that when he is asked to choose between his country and his queen, he is SO indecisive made me so frustrated at times! There are also a few times when he was asked to make a tough choice, and he just refused, which made it looks like he just wanted to please everyone and hold on to his moral standards, while also being in life-threatening situations and having to fight a war. A part of me also wanted to slap him for the way he treated Lara (even though she kind of deserved a part of it), but the angst-lover part of me was SO HAPPY! But even though he was a little annoying at times, I still love him with all my heart, and he is still great in this book. 

“You are my goddamned damnation, but there will never be anyone but you.”

Lara is still feisty and driven, but she is also full of self-loathe in this book. She wants to redeem herself, but she has a lot of work to do. She knows she cannot hope or ask for forgiveness, but she wants to atone and free Ithicana before leaving and spending the rest of her life hidden somewhere. Being a sucker for hate-to-love romance, I was so happy to be able to have that dynamic a second time for Lara and Aren. While they are still officially married, the trust between them is clearly broken, and they need to rebuild everything between them from scratch. There are some cute and intense moments in this book too, and they are, without a doubt, one of my favorite fantasy couples.I adore the new characters we meet in this book! Lara's sisters were great and I hope to see more of them in the next books. It is nice to see how they helped and protected each other despite everything that happened between them. I also like Keris very much, and I hope that he will not break my heart... I really want to like him and trust him, but I am afraid to be disappointed with him in the next book.The ending is good and sweet, but I was hoping for something a little more meaningful and intense maybe...? There is no cliffhanger like in the first book since this is the end of Lara and Arren's adventure, and the next book will be about Keris and Zarrah. Lara and Aren were awesome, and I am definitely going to re-read this series in the years to come because I am utterly in love with them, but I am also very excited to read the next book because I know that Keris has the potential to steal the show and my heart too. The Bridge Kingdom ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Artwork by Dominique WessonFollow me on Instagram 🙂