5 - ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The Traitor Queen played with my nerves to no end. Did I love it? Hell yes! I could not put this book down.. at all.When I read The Bridge Kingdom, before I even got to know to the story and the characters, Danielle’s has the ability to immerse her readers into her books from the very first page. I finished TBK in less than a day, same goes to TTQ.Lara, the fiesty and fearless Queen of Ithicana, and Aren, the loyal and courageous King of Ithicana, are both characters that will always be dear to me. From the very start until the end, no once did I find them boring or bland and that says something about how Danielle handled their characterizations. Through dual POVS, I managed to understand and sort through both Lara’s and Aren’s thoughts and feelings which helped shaped them into characters with different layers and a dash of complexity. In TTQ, I felt their anguish, desperation, and hopelessness after all that went down. The tension between them and the struggle between succumbing their feelings or focusing their duty, which may mean putting the Kingdom first instead of one another, was deeply felt.The plot had a great pacing and I was easily absorbed into the chaos from where we left off in the first book. It still maintained a fantastic blend of political intrigue, with more nerve-wrecking action scenes and tension-building. The world maintains its atmospheric feel to it but maybe a little less so than the first book, but due to the severity of the situation the characters could not dwell long in the same spot. The most pleasant treat I was given in this book were Lara’s sisters. I mean, who wouldn’t want to see more women kick ass? They were an amazing addition and enjoyed their interactions with Lara and the other characters.The romance was truly slow-burn despite Lara and Aren being Husband and Wife but due to an “misunderstanding” they had to rebuild their trust from scratch. However, their moments together still managed to make my heart butterflies flutter in a frenzy. They’re truly one of my favorite enemies-to-lovers couple. But, me being me, have one point I just want to say: the ending was a little rushed. I needed an epilogue. I don’t want to part with them in a rush because I want to see the aftermath of all the blood-drenched battles and deaths. Well... I may not had been robbed of that just yet since there are two more books that follow The Bridge Kingdom duology but they’re from the POVS of Prince Keris and General Zarrah and their warring Kingdoms.Looking forward to reading more from Danielle L. Jensen, especially the upcoming Bridge Kingdom 3rd and 4th books.