This book already has 70k reviews and ratings... fml. This book is interesting not because of it's story (which is dull) but because of the circumstances surrounding it's release. BLACK FACEEvery now and then a book comes along that presents some toxic ideas which are commonly seen in tons of books. But our GoodReads community turns into a hive mind and decides this one book is the absolute worst. I can't help but feel that this book got unlucky. The Winner's Curse was gushed about despite it's disgusting representation of colonialism and slavery. Sarah Maas had published a dozen books, short stories and novellas before readers started to grumble about the lack of LGBT characters. Mark Lawrence, Prince of Thorns and Patrick Rothfuss got almost no flack for their sexist stereotypes. So the question becomes- are people outraged by the offensive stereotypes or are they just unable to ignore them because the story was subpar? Race in fantasy is a difficult thing. Most writers avoid it entirely, it's a chronic truism that if the book is a fantasy then you can assume everyone is white. In Carve the Mark I'm not sure there was any way for Roth to avoid this controversy. She set up a situation in which two cultures clash. Providing any sort of racial markers to either group was going to cause a reaction. For the criticism of ableism- all I can really add is people who experience disability or chronic pain are likely to have the clearest perspective on this but since there are entire spiritual practices devoted to incorporating pain into knowledge of god it would probably be useful to remember that there is not one right way to write about difficult experiences. The most useful discussion around this stuff is seeing if the writer correctly identified a possible response to a human experience. They aren't representing your experience. If every time a writer tried to write about an experience they don't have personal knowledge of they got lambasted… well good luck getting any marginalised experiences into print. Perhaps the backlash against this novel will be an important marker to writers and publishers alike? God knows I've gritted my teeth thru enough "white saviour", "black aggressor", "magical negro" and "noble savage" stereotypes to be eager to see these tropes die out. Maybe Roth's new book is the bloody sacrifice needed to make publishers sit up and take notice? In which case this mediocre book can be said to have done some real good in the literary world. But I can't help suspecting this novel will be thrown on a pyre righteous of indignation like other outliers before it is ignobly forgotten. Readers will continue to eat up sexist and racist stories because the characters are swoon worthy, the plot is thrilling or the reader's who object are "oversensitive sjw's". This controversy is food for thought for writers and readers alike. Despite what some people claim stories are important cultural indicators. They shape and define how we experience and respond to the world around us. A story is never "just a story" and I'm pleased to see so many fellow readers engaging with subtext and connotation, rather then reviews full of gifs saying "omfg love interest is soooo hawt". BLOOD MONEY The second thing worth noting was the volume of paid reviews this book has on the front page. There are a ton of studies that show how being financially paid to review a product unconsciously inflates reviewers' scores. This is the first novel I've come across on GR were the front page was saturated with paid reviews. GR has been fiercely defended as a place created for readers by readers (and the bloody remnants of many writing careers can still be found scattered across the site).  In a world of tightly controlled image creation GR members have managed to carve out a space that can be downright vicious to anyone who tries to infiltrate the community for commercial purposes. As a community we need to think carefully about accepting paid reviews as a common practice. It destroys authenticity. Most regular users are voracious readers. It would be wonderful if we could all earn a living by reading books. But here's the thing: you won't. Even if a tiny fraction of readers manage to earn a living wage reviewing books it will be at the cost of their personal integrity and the community's effectiveness. Goodreads works because it is real. It is genuine word of mouth supercharged across the globe. Marketers might be drooling to get a slice of the PR pie but we as members decide whether that is organic, authentic acclaim or... not.There is a very real risk if this trend continues that GR will become an advertisement billboard. Our choices now will determine the future of goodreads. If you see a review that is paid for don't like it. Let the other member know you are unhappy with their decision to accept payment for a review. These are two really easy things members can do to curb these trends. If paid reviews get no "likes" and languish on the 20th page publishers won't bother trying to curate the book's image. Likewise, if members see that accepting paid reviews breaks their friends trust, they won't accept them. How we address commercial encroachment in Good Reads matters. I don't come to GR to read 30 paid ads on the book I'm about to read, do you?Edit: Some booktubers and reviewers have vigorously defended themselves. I wanted to add evidence to my claim that the inflation in reviews occurs even where the reviewers believe they are being objective:https://reviewmeta.com/blog/analysis-...Although this refers to amazon reviews I think it provides sufficient evidence for the same problem on GR.For further evidence of how fucked up it is having sponsored reviews on goodreads see Riley's review  Which describes how her contact was dissolved when she notified the publisher she would be writing a negative review. Edit: Fixed formatting/ spelling/ added links.