Well, that was disappointing. I had hoped that the story would evolve from the stage that Pierce had set up in the first book, that the rather non-existant stakes that Aly had faced would become something more substantial once the Balitangs returned to Rajmuat. Somehow things managed to come even easier to Aly than before and while I admired the old-school spy games of the first book they now seem to require little effort, relying on magic and gods' whims to do all the work. All the villains are cartoon-ish and fumbling. Aly is once again smarter than everyone and everything comes easily. When things don't go according to her plans it usually somehow saves her from a difficult decision that would otherwise have given the story some dimension and the character some grit.The head of the King's guard easily figures Aly out as spy, except of course he conveniently isn't interested in politics and doesn't care as long as she doesn't go near Dunevon, passing up the opportunity to give her a worthy adversary. Sarai just happens to run off with a Carthak to clear the way for her more suitable sister to head the revolution instead of Aly dealing with the fact that the "twice royal" first born she is trying to put on the throne may not be substantial enough to be queen. Elsran and Dunevon die in the mage storm at the fault of the villains when Aly was putting off deciding how to handle the children who were in her way without killing them, something that was actually presenting a dilemma. And Imajane commits suicide as opposed to requiring any sort of confrontation with her.  Any time Aly's spy-work would fall short despite her best efforts there is some sort of magical creature, power or deus ex machina (often the deus part is literal) that allows her to see and hear all things. I loved the magic of Tortall in the Lioness books, but here it is overused and Aly hardly has to break a sweat when overthrowing a small country. Other characters thank the god for bringing Aly to them in every other chapter, to the point where I really could have stood to see her taken down a peg...or 10.The only thing that doesn't seem to come easily to Aly is perhaps her romantic pursuits. Nawat changed his disposition since the last book but since it all happened off page it comes across as forced. He is absent for most of the book, and while I really like when character's romantic pursuits are not at the forefront of the story, I felt a little robbed of seeing his character growth that I had so looked forward to. He reappears as a less enjoyable, less original character and we don't even get to find out how he got to that place firsthand. His crow friends also appear less in the story, replaced by jar-jar binks-esque little glob creatures I seriously could have done without. We were told Aly grew as a character, the same way we're told she was a bit frivolous before the pirate raid, though there is a lot of telling and less showing. Without Aly's wager with the Trickster the narrative arc just lost it's compass. The ending was very unsatisfying. They just gloss over the ramifications of Aly staying in Rajmuat as Dove's Spymaster. Everything that has happened so far has been in the interest of Tortall and there has been no conflict but Pierce doesn't even have Aly consider what will happen the day Dove makes a decision that may be best for the Copper Isles but bad for Tortall. Where do her loyalties lie then? What happens when she has to play spy vs spy with her own father due to politics? Instead it's written off as a joke in the epilogue "hey dad, get your spies out of the copper isles. Heheh, even though I know you will just get new ones *wink*" with Aly pregnant and married. It just felt dumbed down compared to the Lioness books.