It's amazing that a writer can produce books as breathtaking as the first two quartets in the Tortall-verse, and also books as terrible as the Daughter of the Lioness-books.What I love about Pierce's writing is the action, the magic, the diverse universe, and the way that you get to really know the characters.None of that happened here. As someone else already phrased it in another review, "The book reads like an account of someone doing a job - recruiting, reading reports, attending meetings. It just isn't all that exciting."I remarked many times throughout my status updates that this book, and its predecessor, had too many characters. There was no way to keep of all those names - which meant that I didn't grieve for them when they died, and thus, the climax felt flat. The only characters I felt I had really connected to were Dove and Aly.Ah, Aly. Speaking of her: What in the world was going on there? I normally applaud Pierce for her fleshed-out, strong heroines with great character development. But not Aly. I think it's safe to say that the poor girl didn't go through any major changes, from the first page of Trickster's Choice, to the last page of Trickster's Queen. It's true that we were told how she lacked motivation before the whole ordeal, but we only got to see if for a few chapters before she was shipped off to the Copper Isles, and from then on she more or less just took charge. Everything seemed to come to her easily: she already knew how to be a spy, she had the help of a god, and when Sarai eloped, we had another, better suited heir for the throne! The children (Elsren and Dunevon) were killed in a storm by the antagonists, so Aly didn't have to worry about what to do about them either, although she worried about it a lot. Last but not least, Rubinyan was KIA against someone Not-Aly, and Imajane committed suicide before any sort of confrontation could happen. Congratulations, Aly.Only two of the chapters were interesting and had any real action; the climax. Everything else was honestly a struggle to get through.I am personally fearing for the time where I sit down with the Beka Cooper-books, because in my opinion, the Tortall-verse keeps getting worse instead of better. Maybe I'll just huddle with the Song of the Lioness, Wild Magic and Protector of the Small quartets and try to forget that any of this happened.