I have to say I did not like this one as well as the first. My reasons for thus are as follow: 1. the plot wasn't as structured as the first. 2. The villains are so incompetent Aly glides through the plot easily. 3. Things that 'go wrong' are actually helpful for the heroes. 4. Aly's relationship with Nawat feels off. Still a book worth reading but not as good as the first. First my beef with the plot. The story begins with Aly and the Balitangs returning to the capital from their place in the country. The ultimate goal being to overturn the Rittevons and install Sarah as the new monarch, who would then end the slavery of the raka and make the Copper Islands a nice place to live for everyone. After that, though, it kind of muddles along without any kind of climbing action. Aly does her spy thing, Sarah does her social butterfly thing, the Rittevons show off how oppressive they are, and suddenly there's this big battle where the standing government more or less implodes. The first book had this steady progression toward the end of summer where "Aly would win or lose her wage" with the god Kyprioth but this book lacks any sense of progression. Second is the incompetent villains. The first villain, the Rittevon king, dies of old age. His son from gluttony. Neither does anything. The king's daughter is just cold and ruthless and almost a single existence with her husband. They rarely act apart so its hard to see them as two characters. Their spymaster (Aly's counterpart) is old and arrogant and, in a word, decayed. Aly mentally lists all the things he's doing wrong, while he sloppily interogates her, and at the end decides he won't be a threat. While this could have been a bluff to get her overconfident, he really isn't a threat and is later executed by the Rittevons for being so useless. His replacement is worse and never gets their own scene. The ONE person smart enough to figure out that Aly is a spy (possibly a spymaster) for the Raka rebels, and could therefore do a lot of damage to their network, is an anti-villain who really cares for nothing but the harmless puppet king controlled by his older and eviler relatives. Third is the lack of resistance. In addition to the harmless villains Aly doesn't have any other problems except her relationship with Nawat. There are two occasions where she is outwitted or out manuvered but both of them help her cause. Not a HUGE problem as Aly points out how the first one is better than what they had planned and that the second one is unfortunately necessary but still, the fact that these are the only problems with her revolt weaken the drama and the sense of victory at the end. Four is Aly's relationship with Nawat. At the end of book 1 she isn't interested in Nawat's offer of a relationship. At the start of book 2 she's accepted and somehow the tables are turned: she's the one that likes their relationship and Nawat's the one that's pulling away. It's because he wants a serious relationship instead of a casual one but its still weird. It could be seen as a sign of Aly's character development as she didn't want to get too involved with anything (a problem that started off the first book) but seeing her suddenly love sick is too weird. Bottom line is: if you liked the first book than you should give this one a try.