Man…. The Daughter of the Lioness duology is simply not a good duology, I’m sad to say. I really hoped this book would be better than the first in the duology, but in several parts, I actually found it to be much worse. This book takes place six months after the events of the first book. Aly is back in Rajmuat with the Balitangs family as she has decided to stay and see what she now feels is her mission to the end; put the twice royal Queen on her rightfull throne.I’ve decided to break this review up into two parts; what I liked and what I didn’t like. Spoiler; there’ll be way more stuff in the ‘what I didn’t like’ part of the review than in the other. Let’s start off with the positive.What I liked - The structure and pacing of this book was great. While I found the first book boring throughout the entirety of the book, this one actually had moments where it was somewhat exciting – some things just prevented the book from ever truly getting exciting, but I’ll get into that later. The plot moved along in a well-paced manner and I found things progressed in a very timely manner. While I liked several aspects of the plot I just felt really disappointed by how they were executed. - Dove and Taybur. Those were the only great characters in this book. I liked that we got to see more of Dove – I would have preferred if she was the main character in this duology – and I enjoyed what Taybur brought to the story – it wasn’t much, but I found him enjoyable. - The conclusion was good. I would have preferred certain changes, espcially a more direct confrontation with the villains, but overall in was a good ending.What I didn’t like - The villains are all extremely incompetent. The regents make one huge mistake after the other and they just continue to dig their own grave. The Raka rebellion could easily have taken the throne if they just waited and let these two idiots ruin things for themselves all on their own. Even their spymaster, who we only meet once, is an old and arrogant man we are TOLD is a potential danger to the rebellion, but we never actually SEE him be any sort of threat.  - While the Darkings are fun, they just scream “MacGuffin” and I hated it. The only purpose these creatures served was to make it easier for Aly to spy within the royal palace but they make it TOO easy. Things nearly go wrong one time, when one of them is found, but luckily it is found by someone who does nothing with his knowledge so it ultimately has no consequences. Why sound I care, as a reader, when things have no consequences?  - Even when Aly does something wrong, it turns out to be for the best and, once again, there really aren’t any consequences When Sarai leaves and they just decide to use Dove instead as their twice royal Queen. I hoped it would end up being Dove who became Queen, but I hated how loosing Sarai was Aly’s only failure and it turned into a major win. - The relationship between Aly and Nawat. I mean.. I just don’t get why they like each other and I seriously don’t understand why Aly went from not really being all that interested to being love sick almost all of the book when Nawat went off to fight. In terms of chemistry I found her and Taybur were a much better match, actually. Also, I cannot get over the fact that he is a crow… - Aly… I mean, I just don’t care about her. Everything comes so easy to her – even when things go wrong, things go right - and she has every positive attribute under the sun and that’s just makes up an incredibly boring character to follow. She doesn’t grow in any way between the first chapter of the first book and the last chapter of this; she was perfect from the beginning and not once is she forced to look critically at herself or do something questionable for the sake of the mission I actually hoped she would have had to play a role in killing Elsren, to make way for Dove becoming Queen but once again she was saved from doing the dirty work.Safe to say I wasn’t impressed with this duology. I think I’ll have to put Pierce on the shelf for some time before I venture into the rest of her series. This one has seriously made me reconsider whether or not it is worth my time.