My main problem with the book was the main character- Aly. I thought she'd improve from the first book, but if anything, she got worse.Aly is arrogant, annoying, patronizing- the list goes on and on. Everything she does is right, everything she thinks turns out to be true, and absolutely nothing catches her off-guard. No matter what happens, she knows what to do (a teenager with no field experience) and she's not at all upset. I won't give spoilers with specific examples, but it is incredibly annoying.There's also the way that she just comes into a country and takes over the oppressed nation's rebellion. A sixteen year old servant, and she just waltzes in and takes over. Never mind that we repeatedly see that there were far more qualified leaders of the rebellion (who for some reason have no problem handing over control to someone they hardly know) who are putting much better plans into place without her (not that she's willing to learn from anyone else, of course)- Aly's in charge. Why? Because...uh...um...well, it was necessary for the plot. Best answer I can come up with.Then there's her arrogance and the way she patronizes everyone (including a god... the book would have been so much better if he'd taught her the lesson she desperately needed). Aly is... what, eighteen at most? Yet she goes around calling everyone "my dear" or something equally ridiculous, and she keeps patting everyone on the cheek. Everyone, of course, doesn't mind at all, and at several points says "what a horribly arrogant and innapropriate thing to do, but it's YOU, Aly"... all I could think was "THE Captain James Tiberius Kirk?". Aly is also painfully aware of her body (okay, she's pretty. Okay, she has curves. Okay, everyone she meets falls in love with her. Okay, her character is completely perfect (despite not being anything close to it). Okay- no, wait, nothing about this is okay. News flash, Tamora Pierce- I COULDN'T CARE LESS HOW PERFECT YOUR CHARACTER IS. Good main characters have FLAWS). She's always showing it off and flirting with boys, often instead of concentrating on her work (which reminds me... Nawat, the one character I liked, goes off on some spiritual journey and comes back completely cleansed of all of his likeable traits). I think at some point she even spends a page or so detailing how she couldn't bear to tease boys anymore and she regards flirting for fun as mean and couldn't possibly do it... a scene or two later, she's back to her old tricks, maybe even worse than before.What happened? Where did Alanna go? She was a normal person. Kel was a normal person (aside from unimaginable degrees of awesomeness, but hey, anything's possible). Daine was a normal person. So where did Aly come from, with examples like this? How did this happen? Yes, she could theoretically exist... but only if she CHANGES. There is no character development, making this book painful to read. It doesn't matter about everything else, all I wanted was for someone to smack some sense into Aly. The plot also left something to be desired, but it's been a while and I don't remember exactly. Hopefully an update to follow when I have more time to think about this clearly and can write comprehensively on the plot.