4.5 Golden Stars6th best of 2019As I said, I knew it was one of the top 10 of 2019. (6th best)My most anticipated release of 2019, lived up pretty well to my expectation.The first book I could start in its book birthday! (finished in 2 days! which was quite a record!)(I rated it when the count was number under 1000!)Updated 10 Dec of 2019: first book reading before Goodreads choice award, sooooo:"Congratulation for winning the best middle grade Goodreads choice award!"totally deserved it!I'm so proud...my bby!you know me, I love to find trivia, details & relations (with my life) everywhere I can. XD2022 re-read: kinda thinking about rounding down the rate- yeah, doneI remember when book 1 in this series, the Hidden Oracle, just had been published. It was the first book I could read along with the fandom, the first book after I joined demigods' army, & I was desperately looking for the book everywhere to read it (because there was a chance that book might not be published in our country, thank goodness it was fake.)Now here I am,in the penultimate journeyfeeling Nostalgic already!true, my first thought was it is a Smaller roller-coaster comparing to ‘the Burning Maze’ which had twists & turns in like almost every pages & constantly go on quests in every chapters. Slightly less fun too. but still full of thrillers & laughs!Despite of what I said & how my heart broke several times (I’m still crying just merely reminding of the Burning Maze) & mended (that wasn’t fair!), it was a great story.the fun!the comparisons!the descriptions!his comebacks!when Apollo trying to convince us we know how he felt. to urge us to understand the weirdest improbable events. & funnily enough, I actually do, even with that strange comparison he experienced in his long life.How the author demonstrated Apollo both as a major deity with 4 thousands plus years old & a modernized 16 year old teenage boy. (he genuinely is both! XD)the meaning of friendship & family lied in the pages of this book.Apollo has definitely changed a lot. I’m proud of him.though still, we have conversations like.Meg: "Big Baby."Apollo: "I beg your pardon!?"(Meg & Apollo are my newest Brotp!)Reyna, you strong woman! you're awesome!The whole lot of second half of the book was just... WOW!& when the story arrived at what the covers already revealed (but not spoiler), I was grinning like an idiot, internally yelling "weeeeeee! this is what the pretty covers said!"many unexpected events happened all over the book, both fun or heart-breaking.I cried a lot in the end.& beside all Riordan's unique writing style & unique-funny-never-getting-old jokes, I love how he channeled into his other stories to remind what happened before, just casually reminding us that. (I always craved to see authors channeling to their other stories & bless you Riordan! you granted my bookish wish again!) Beside telling us the original myths' references & Apollo’s life.Can I mention I'm pretty sure Riordan reads memes!?& this book showed he is a Marvel fan too. (just as first book showed he is a Supernatural fan!)I'm so thrilled!I really need to hear Apollo’s songs, it would be great if we had tv shows of Riordanverse.& by the way, I'm angry at Riordan! Why Jason must die (who was Hera's favourite!) but Frank didn't? that might sound cruel, but beside my tears was wasted, I felt betrayed, because my baby... you know what I mean, even Riordan knows it was cruel because it was mentioned in the book, which made me burst into tears, again... *curled up in the corner & cry even more by remembering the moment*a Must read if you like: a Great Middle grade-regardless of age- fantasy, Greek mythology with unique fun, San Francisco, gods who have lost their powers, desperate last stands & if you read & enjoy all the 13 adventures before. XDO’ next book, Where art thou?-World building (premise): ★★★★/5Characters: ★★★★★/5/ Characters development: ★★★★★/5Written style: ★★★★★/5/ Fun: ★★★★/5/ Feelz: ★★★★/5Plot: ★★★★/5General idea: ★★★★★/5