4.5 stars    “Her misery was like the cold gravity of a mountain. You could stand next to that mountain and close your eyes, and even if you couldn’t see it or hear it, you knew it was there – unspeakably heavy and powerful, a geological force so ancient it made even immortal gods feel like gnats.”  Starting  The Tyrant's Tomb  I had  so many  expectations. How not after the ending of  The Burning Maze?  And I had very clear the feelings I  wanted  to feel while reading this one. As the  fourth  book, and most likely the-one-before-the-last, in the series, stakes are high and emotions are running wild. Riordan has a very good pattern of delivering my favorite books of his series as the fourth installment, which is another thing that only added to my high expectations. It delivered beautifully. From beginning to end there was this cloud over everything that sets the mood.   “I forgive you. Not because you deserve it. Not for your sake at all. But because I will not go into oblivion carrying hate when I can carry love.”  We move to our beloved  Camp Jupiter  as the location of this quest. I really like the fact that we have had different, concrete, locations for every quest. Rather than the most typical  get-to-the-location-of-the-quest-through-the-whole-book.  It's a refreshing change. It also allows us to focus a bit more on the people of these places, which I supposed is the goal. Getting to see one of my favorite characters [Reyna] was beautiful. I really liked the arcs that each of the characters went through. All of them have grown so much and I feel so proud of them. From Reyna and the rest of the OGs to Meg. It's always rewarding to see them grow into mature people.   “Have you completely made up for all the bad things you’ve done? No. But you keep adding to the ‘good things’ column. That’s all any of us can do.”  There is one thing that I did not quite like. The fact that the book is mostly carried by old characters. Don't get me wrong, I love a good cameo as much as the next person. Actually, I live for the cameos. But, in a new series, I want to see more new characters rather than a heavy influx of old ones. So far,  The Trials of Apollo  had been doing great in this area. With a healthy mix of old and new that makes it easy enough for a new reader to get into the story. But this one had, like,  one  new character. I'm not kidding.Aside from Lavinia and some mentions of other people we didn't have anyone else new. We had Reyna and Hazel, Frank and Tyson and Ella, heck, even Don the faun is a character we already knew -albeit we hadn't gotten to know his character all that deeply, he wasn't new - if shallowly. If you haven't read  The Heroes of Olympus  you would feel it. Sure, Riordan does a good enough job at having the characters tell their stories but, still, I feel like adding more new characters wouldn't have killed anyone.  “If I’m going to burn,” he said, “I might as well burn bright. This is for Jason.”  Of course, the whole Jason narrative was  beyond  satisfying.It gave the story the right kick and push that I was expecting. I would have loved to see more of Thalia but I completely get why that was as it is. What we did get was more than okay.Seeing that narrative continue into the next book is gonna be just as fun as it was in this one. Because I have no illusions that it's not gonna affect everything that keeps happening.   “Death is part of life. You have to accept it. Life would be meaningless without death. The deceased will always be alive as long as we remember them.”  Can we talk about the end of the book now? Because it was one intense thing happening after the last one.Obviously, we have a beautiful fighting sequence where everything comes to head with what we were promised. It's wonderful seeing how far Apollo/Lester has come and just his thoughts are so far removed from what they were at the beginning of this adventure. I feel very proud of our cinnamon roll. I will confess that I was thoroughly shocked at the conclusion of the big baddies of this book. I mean, I knew it had to happen at some point but, to be honest, I completely thought this was not gonna be the book.  Seeing the way they found their demise was satisfactory from beginning to end. Frank's plan was heartbreakingly perfect. Even after all was done I couldn't quite believe it had really happened.  I'm not sure I can believe it even now. This brings us neatly to the  other  part of the ending that had me in a roller coaster of emotions. These ones a bit more displeased. So, everything was going beautifully, heartbreakingly, perfect. I could not believe what had just happened and I had rivers of tears running down my cheeks. Even though I could hardly believe Rick had done   that   to us I had already made peace with is and was  loving  the implications of it all.  I was there for it.  And then...  that happens. I won't lie and say that I completely hate it because I don't. I did sigh in relief. I did smile. I did cry for a completely different reason. I won't say that it doesn't make a twisted perfect sense. It does. I really,  really,  like the idea of how all that arc unfolds through time. I like the explanation. It feels possible and well between the bounds this world has. It felt almost as if I had always knowing it and now I was just acknowledging it. Yet, if you know anything about me you need to know that I'm always displeased when authors pull that card. Even when is well justified. To me, it will always feel like the author can't fully commit to that idea. Even though I  know  Riordan  can  and  has  commited to that idea.With all the conflicting emotions I can say full-heartedly that I liked that particular twist.   “Never underestimate the power of thousands of human minds all believing the same thing. They can remake reality. Sometimes for the better. Sometimes not.”   The Tower of Nero  promises to be a great book. Though, I have  no idea  how that book will be better than these last two installments. The amount of lose ends has diminished and some topics are well tied in this one. Sure, we still have a lot in Meg's particular arc but, well, I'm not all that excited about that because I still don't like Meg. The prospect of returning to New York, and possibly Camp Half-Blood,  is  a bit exciting. If mostly because of  who  exactly we will see. And, well, returning to where it all started to end it -because I'm pretty sure  The Tower of Nero  will be the last book  - makes poetic sense. Very fitting.   “I don’t need another person to heal my heart. I don’t need a partner… at least, not until and unless I’m ready on my own terms. I don’t need to be force-shipped with anyone or wear anybody else’s label. For the first time in a long time, I feel like a weight has been lifted from my shoulders.”  ______________________________I love it. I'm still reeling from those last pages. Ugh. My poor heart can't take this kinda heat anymore. But I still love it. I'm feeling so many things and I  really  need to get over this initial shock before anything I say can be trusted. So, I'm going to sleep on it. One thing is sure. I need to read  The Tower of Nero  as soon as it comes out. RTC. ______________________________I've been waiting way too long for this book to come out and I really needed to get my hands on it as soon as it came out. Which I did. And having waited the single day has been enough stalling. This  has  to get me right in the feels after the last book's ending if it doesn't make me cry at least once I'll be disappointed. Enough talk. I'll get back to you anyway.