Let me preface this with the warning that this will have unhidden spoilers for The Burning Maze as well as attempted hidden spoilers for The Tyrant's Tomb. Also, incoherence, profanity, and rambles, etc, because I have no chill when it comes to Rick Riordan. You've been warned. When we left Apollo and Meg at the end of The Burning Maze, it was just about the most brutal sendoff to a Rick Riordan book since The Mark of Athena. And by that, I mean, Jason Grace fucking died in perhaps the most brutal way possible: that is, getting impaled by some evil Roman empire, getting his broken body dumped unceremoniously on the beach, and his last hurrah in a coffin, the last we see of our favourite Roman praetor-turned-dork. So. Yeah. I was pretty desperate to get my filthy little gremlin hands on this book after that ending. It turns out, Rick's still taunting us for telling him, "Hey, you should have killed more people during Heroes of Olympus," because he continues absolutely brutalizing his readers by re-introducing Jason in his coffin and showing up with a hearse before coming back to our beloved characters last seen several years ago: Hazel Levesque, Frank Zhang, and Reyna Ramirez-Arellano. Reyna. Oh, Reyna. I have missed her; it has been five years since we last saw the praetor of Rome. She's probably one of my favourite characters in the whole series because Reyna is so damn powerful and strong and determined. I was absolutely thrilled to see her again as a main character. It's also so lovely to see Frank back in action. I know a lot of people disliked Frank's supernatural body change, and Rick reneged on that a bit, making Frank the adorable teddy bear that could probably kill you but definitely doesn't want to that we all know and love. I missed Frank so much. He's my favourite Chinese-Canadian son of Mars. I also adored Hazel's storyline, and even though Frazel wasn't really my bread and butter during The Heroes of Olympus, they really grew on me here. Spoilers from here on out. We also see a lot of old characters from the last series, which is exciting, but most of them die, which isn't so exciting. Rick took those "Please kill more people, it's war," comments to heart. Rick also seems determined to pick the Seven off one by one, for some reason, and a lot of this book had me absolutely screaming into my pillow. Frank's stick of firewood comes into play again, and the Roman emperors can only be killed by fire, and I'll let you come to your own conclusion about how that plays out. Yeah. There's a lot going on in this book about fate, like in all of Rick Riordan's books, and reading about Frank had me on the edge of my seat and in tears. Unlike literally every other new Riordan release I have read, I was not spoiled for this, so I was genuinely fearful and gritting my teeth for the worst to happen. Apollo's entire character in this series can be best described as "suicide by words," because the amount of second-hand embarrassment I got while reading this book is palpable. But Apollo continues to go through so much character development, and considering what an absolute dirtbag god!Apollo was, there's a lot of character to develop. We get more of a deep dig into the mythology of Apollo, what made him him throughout the whole time the Riordanverse has been going on and how he got to hit rock bottom. And I really love how Rick is digging into the obscure parts of Greco-Roman mythology, incorporating mythology from other cultures in offhand mentions (a nod, perhaps, to the series in his imprint), as well as examining the mythology of one particular character closely. It all somehow works very well to build Apollo's character and how complex this doofus actually is. Also: Apollo continues to be the single most relatable bisexual character. Romance disaster / I'm poison for guys and gals / You wanna hang out? is one of the chapter titles, and any bisexual who's ever joked about how being bi just gives the opportunity to be rejected by double the amount of people can relate. Zero divided by two is still zero, after all. And Apollo's offhand comment about hot firefighters made me snicker and want to high-five him, because, yeah, mood. Even though I do believe that the Trials of Apollo series reads significantly sillier than either of Rick's two previous series, with a myriad of pop culture and history references that people of all ages will get, the themes addressed are far from silly or childish. Running through the series and into this book are the themes on home, found family, and childhood trauma, and Rick really does dig into the last one here. Meg and Apollo are directly stated to be survivors of abusive parents - Apollo even points out Jupiter as his abuser. And even though it's shown that a lot of Apollo's reasoning for his heinous behaviour and bullying as a god is indirectly because of the cracks in self-esteem from his abuse, it most certainly does not excuse him from perpetuating a cycle. Apollo is given the chance to atone and realize his actions were absolutely unacceptable, and he doesn't get any breaks from the other characters in being forced to that realization either. Forgiveness might help, but sometimes, the person who abused you or bullied you doesn't deserve forgiveness, regardless of understanding, and it's okay, as long as you're at peace with yourself. A lot of people in New Rome are also suffering from post-traumatic stress as well, this time from combat and the death of friends and family. Unlike in the Heroes of Olympus, it's not glossed over, or brushed to the side. There are some very honest and painful conversations in this book that will ring true for survivors of trauma, or anyone who's ever lost someone close to someone and have had to grieve. Despite the silliness of the narration and the absolute disaster that Apollo is, this book faces these serious topics with a lot more candor and realism than Rick used to. I do want to point out something that made me deeply uncomfortable, and that's Reyna's characterization and fate at the end, and especially all that regarding her sexuality. I headcanon Reyna as a lesbian, partially because of my own reading as a sapphic woman and partially because I've read headcanons of other teen and young adult lesbians who deeply resonate with Reyna's story. Rick Riordan seems to be doing his damndest to shut down that headcanon, despite him saying that we're welcome to headcanon Reyna however we want. Some of Reyna's comments seemed not only a dig at the fans who hold that lesbian!Reyna headcanon close, but an absolute failure at, you know, portraying Reyna as straight, and reinforcing the subtext that Reyna is actually a repressed queer woman. Reyna doesn't affirm or deny attraction to either men or women and seems to consider both as equally likely for her to date, but frankly, her attraction to men just isn't there at all, and there's definitely a reading that the fervent denial of her and Thalia being together is evidence that yes, actually, she likes girls. Also, joining a cult of eternal maidenhood with your best gal pen pal? That's not gay at all. /s Whether you see her as lesbian, bisexual, or aro/ace is frankly no concern of mine, because there's valid readings on all sides. And I do think it would have been more powerful, more of a self-acceptance plot, if Reyna realized her trying to attatch herself to any male roughly equal to her position romantically was the result of compulsory heterosexuality and, undoubtedly, the heavy trauma that comes with running what's essentially an army of childhood soldiers in wartime as someone who isn't even out of her teens yet. It really does read like Reyna's only "looking for a partner" because she's essentially the parental figure of this army camp full of young teenagers and - knowing Reyna's history with her abusive father, and lack of a mother, and knowing that the majority of residents of Camp Jupiter are also in the same situation - is obligated to find a male parental figurehead to cope, giving the Twelfth Legion the parents that neither of them ever had. But, you know, enough psychoanalyzing here, can you tell I'm an analysis-starved English major? I mean, I'm certainly not accusing Rick of being homophobic. We do get a young Jewish tap-dancing lesbian in this book, Lavinia Asimov, and she's so relatable and definitely my favourite new character of this series - in addition to being one of the bravest and most determined characters to show up and save New Rome, which really is saying something. "I love girls too much to even think about joining the Huntresses." Gods. What a mood. But what I am saying is that there's a deeply pervasive divide between how we as a society think about queer women as opposed to queer men that Rick Riordan, unfortunately, falls prey to, and it is worth thinking about, and something that I want to address with more examples across the whole canon of children's literature, when my brain manages to regenerate a couple more neurons. On the flip side, we do get Reyna absolutely losing her shit when Apollo asks her out, along with possibly the worst second-hand embarrassment I've ever had, and me cackling right along with Reyna. I am not sure I have ever laughed that hard or been that embarrassed for someone in a book. also can we talk about the fact that Reyna not wanting to tap god!Apollo is even more evidence that she's a big ol LESBIAN okay? no? okay The humor in this book is silly, and it definitely breaks up the more serious story beats, but my absolute favourite moment in this book was Apollo stuttering out a, "Maybe ... I could, um, be, uh, your boyfriend," and Reyna's "HAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAA" following Apollo for a good three pages. A delight, 10/10 moment, Rick Riordan played all of us who feared that Reyna and Apollo were about to happen. Prophecies really don't come true in the most direct way, and Reyna got to laugh more than she has in years, so I'm pleased. Anyways. Rick Riordan did it again, he destroyed me, and I'm left here waiting for Book Five because, oh boy, I can't believe we're facing another ending of the Camp Half-Blood verse. Again. This series means ... so much to me, in so many ways, and I'm not ready for it to end.