I go a little crazy if I read more than one Margaret Atwood novel a year. I hope I'm not alone in this. I get the feeling that Atwood's sharp, but her writing is filed to a finer edge. I realized a while ago that one book per year was enough.I have a similar reaction to Stephen King, though I'm not sure why. I really loved The Stand, but when it was over I knew that I wasn't going to read another of his works for a while.At first, I thought this meant that I didn't like Stephen King and Margaret Atwood. Over time, I've come to realize and accept that I really like reading them, and there's no contradiction in needing to read other authors in between.I am going through a similar process with young adult novels. I've read quite a few lately.Additionally, I feel like I shouldn't like young adult literature anyway. For one thing, I'm too old. Undeniably, I often find the characters annoying. And everything is clearly explained to the reader.* As a teacher, I have perfectly satisfactory excuses for reading young adult fiction, but I suppose I should stop kidding myself. I just like a lot of these young adult novels.Right now, young adult writers are very free to do what they want. I worry sometimes that too many authors stress over being derivative or unoriginal. Most of the best stories are stolen, and many great writers seem to excel at making people forget the source text. With young adult writers, they don't seem to be setting out to top their template stories. Instead, everything is an homage, an introduction, or a gateway for children to learn about those older templates. Since it's all for a good cause, it's not necessary to pretend like no one else wrote the story before.(Or maybe the sorts of stories that I like to read are not marketing as well with mainstream writers. I don't know.)In The Uglies, Scott Westerfield has fun introducing dystopian themes, weighing in on conformity and control.Here's the premise: In the future, everything is provided for. Life is broken up into the following stages: cute littlies, awkward uglies (teens), gorgeous pretties, authoritative middle pretties, and late pretties. Thanks to a new surgical procedure, everyone gets to give up their ugly features when they turn 16. The result is a paradise, so everyone has to become pretty.Although it means they'll always be ugly, some people choose to walk away from Omelas...Not bad, eh? Unfortunately, the breakthrough surgical procedure reminded me too strongly of Unwind and the love triangle reminded me too much of Mockingjay. Westerfield resists the urge to use a first-person voice, and that was refreshing.I've recently read quite a few dystopian young adult novels so I didn't enjoy The Uglies as much as I would have if I'd read it in 2011. It's my own fault, really.Still, I've learned something about myself, which is good. Unashamed, I think the next young adult read for me will either be The Book Thief or City of Ember.But I'm going to wait a couple months first.*Gene Wolfe is the anti-coddler, in my opinion. He doesn't write young adult fiction, but I can't think of any writers that give their readers as much credit as Wolfe does.