[Made some major edits - Oh, and read the end of the review, please. :)]Arggghhhhhh.I read the words:"Japanese steampunk"and lost my mind. I knew I had to read this book like, NowOMGholyshiznits. So I did. And now I'm torn, because the words "Japanese Steampunk" deserve five stars for even existing, but the book...not so much.The blurb sounded fantastic - all the elements I could ever want in a steampunk story (Or even any genre kind of story). I went through lots and lots of rave enthusiastic reviews. Also, need I mention - JAPANESE. STEAMPUNK. (And, OMG, chainsaw. Katana!??! THUNDERTIGERS?!?! SHUT UP AND TAKE MY MONEY.)I expected so, so much from this story, and perhaps that's why it failed to deliver what I was looking for. While I was reading, all I could think about was how oddly detached I was from the characters. I felt nothing for the heroine and even less for her father/love interest(s). The only character I actually liked was Buruu, and possibly Lady Aisha, and even that was a very tentative, fleeting sort of 'like'. The character development was minimal and, well, soggy at best - I know its there, but it wasn't good enough. Not by a longshot. Everyone is 2-dimensional and flat. Flat like steamrolled flat; there is literally no depth to these characters.Also, the prose and writing style was WAY TOO overdone. Of course, there were some good lines in there, like  "Feathers grow back. Sisters do not." and some pretty descriptions - but most of the time, there was just too much description, which made it very hard to follow. World building went on forever, and ever, and ever, and ever. It was unnecessary, to say the least. Usage of Japanese terms and language was overdone and added to the confusion, because they weren't woven in properly. [Here I would like to note, 'aiyah!' is not a Japanese exclamation. I'm annoyed, because its what we Malaysians use. :D Singaporeans do, too - but I have never, ever, ever heard a Japanese say anything the least bit similar to 'aiyah!']But! Those are just things I felt uncomfortable with in the book - There are some things about this book that just outright didn't cut it for me.1. For a novel which claims to be a Japanese steampunk [and the distinction is important,] there is very little authentic Japanese or (even Oriental/Asian) feel to this story. You can't just fling Japanese words around and market it as a Japanese story. That's not how it works, and it really doesn't work here. This is most obvious in the way the characters interact with each other. There is something distinctly un-Japanese about how they address or relate to one another, and in their actions towards each other. Perhaps its different for other readers, but I see it very clearly, and it bothers me.*Edit: No, seems like I'm not alone with this. Kindly refer to other scathing but sadly true one-star/two-star reviews which point out just how badly the Japanese language/grammar is murdered in this novel, because they cover all the glaring mistakes that I noticed in the writing. And there are some hugeass glaring ones. I feel the need to reiterate this point: don't. Overuse. The. Japanese. Terms! (I reread a first few chapters in the hope my opinion would improve....nope, if anything, it got worse). They were almost always unnecessary and got really annoying to sift through. I ended up assuming/imagining what every Japanese term meant in my head because I couldn't be bothered to google. Even worse, the terms that I did know were a result of many long hours spent watching anime and reading manga - I can't even begin to imagine how the readers who never indulge in the pastime get through the insane amount of Japanese word-dropping that goes on. I notice the author has three chapters up for previews. Read THAT, and you'll begin to understand what I mean.**Also, thought I'd give you some examples of what I mean by culturally not Japanese (or even Asian):Take the father-daugther relationship. Yukiko was outright rude and whiny to her father in public at the beginning of the story. That is *so* not the way it works - rude is one thing, public is another. I know I once got disciplined in public for being rude to my dad - and Yukiko throws a tantrum instead. Oh boy. This may seem like a little thing, but the whole novel consists of odd non-Asian moments like this.And that bit where she was allowed to just walk away after downright insulting the group of adults smoking whatever flower it was? 2. I also did not fully buy into the friendship/bond between Buruu and Yukiko. Certainly it was adorable - but it was unbelievable. I simply had to compare it to the Toothless-Hiccup relationship in How To Train Your Dragon because there are many similarities in the circumstances, but the similarity ends there. The Toothless-Hiccup relationship took lots of time and effort, and there was a slow, obvious forming of a lasting bond of trust that was ultimately rewarding and touching for both characters. Not so much in the Yukiko-Buruu bond. It happened too quickly, even with Yukiko's ability to talk to animals - one moment, they severely mistrusted each other and the next, they were the I-love-you dynamic brother sister fighting duo? No. I have to say that I was looking forward to their character and relationship development the most, and so it was in this aspect that I was the most disappointed.3. You want a romance aspect to your novel? Fine with me, I'd prefer it, in fact. However, the romance within this novel was so badly written that I think it even detracted from the dramatic tension a little bit. Yukiko is at her worst when her romance scenes are written, and I honestly hate the samurai guy she sleeps with.Not so much the other love interest guy, because I think he's okay, but the samurai guy is a real ass, and you can just tell from the beginning. Why can't Yukiko?!?! All she ever thinks about is how green his eyes are. Does she ever notice anything else about him!?. InstaLove rears its ugly head YET again; I loathe it, and its like Kristoff can't be bothered to even attempt to write it well. Yunno, I *have* read instances of good InstaLove. They're rare like unicorns, but they exist. This was not one of those instances, plus it comes with miserable and unneeded Love Triangle! trope. No. Stop, please, I beg you. This kind of thing ruins a story, and its not like it needed any further ruination after all the weak characterization and plot that goes on.I'm annoyed with this novel, because I really, really want to like it - but I don't. Its nothing special, and I've read so many better ones. The one star you see is just the star that I have to accord on account of the words "Japanese Steampunk". I can't give anything higher than that, because it simply wouldn't be true. *Edit: Yep, so I waver between two stars and one star a lot. After some contemplation, one star it is - I've read far worse books, as much as this one sucks. I wish for negative stars, but Goodreads just isn't accommodating like that....The ending, of all things, just reads like a failed attempt at the dramatic tension that happens in Hunger Games or similar dystopian novels. Sorry, but not even close.Still, I'm sure I'll pick up the next book in the series just to discover what happens. I'll hate myself for doing it, but I probably will. Hopefully, author-sama [dear author, note: PROPER use of suffix -sama !!!! ] will take some Japanese culture and language classes before he starts working on the sequel. It's wishful thinking, but I'm willing to give this Japanese steampunk thing another go. Just because it's Japanese. And steampunk.**[important]EDIT In lieu of a recent interview of Kristoff's that I have been linked to - I've got some rage to vent. Some extreme, extreme rage. Why? Look:GR is a public forum, but it’s a place where people put their personal opinion out for the world to see. If your opinion differs, the solution is simple: write your own frackin’ review. If you’re an author and you’re getting bent out of shape about someone trashing your book, the solution is also simple: stop reading bad reviews.No single 1 star review ever sunk a book. And as amazing as chocolate ice-cream is, and as baffling to you as the thought might be, there are some people in the world who do not like chocolate ice cream. You don’t have to hang out with them, or talk with them or deal with them in any way. Just stick with the folks who like chocolate and it’s all good.Even if the person is eating chocolate ice-cream and screaming “Oh god, this martini sucks” – just DON’T. It’s not worth it.I have no words.I was so angry, I had to compose myself before editing this review. Oh, and, that's ONE STAR OFF MY TWO STARS, THANKS.Is THIS how you want to respond to negative reviews, Kristoff? SERIOUSLY? Look - you can't please everyone. That's for sure. I agree with you 100%. But we negative reviewers aren't putting your book down for shits and giggles. We are giving you honest-to-god constructive criticism in the sincere hopes that you improve your writing. Do forgive us if we seem a bit snarky, but we tell it as we see it. Look, I gave you your due: I mentioned that I liked your premise. You thought about it, its fun and original, kudos to you. NOW IMPROVE. Its not like you've written the best book of the decade. You're not even close. Have you got anything to say about the points that I and the other reviewers have raised in regards to your writing?! Anything OTHER than "some people just don't like chocolate ice-cream!??!?!!? Look: you don't have to respond to us or comment on our reviews. If you do, you'll find that we are both respectful and willing to discuss your book rationally with you, even tell you what you did *right* - but you certainly don't have to engage us. HOWEVER, please *respect* our reviews in return. We took the time to read your book, to analyze it, and write this review for it. We didn't do this mindlessly. Do you really think there's no basis to our criticism?! Sorry. Your, and I quote, speshul snowflake response to negative reviews is just not cutting it for me. I've just lost most of my respect for you, and you've provoked me so much that I've reached the end of my rant but I'M STILL ANGRY.Arrrghhhhh.