“… I wanted to write a book with heart; a book about a friendship that bloomed despite all obstacles. A bond that would grow to become a thing of legend in this nation on the edge of ruin—a friendship that challenged the might of an empire."  ~Jay Kristoff  In my opinion, to be a writer is not only one of the toughest tasks in the world, it is also the most courageous; for to be an author is to take on the challenge, not only of pouring yourself into a novel, but in reaching an audience and making them feel the heart and passion you put into a story as well. In all honesty, very few authors truly succeed in this - writing is hard, who said it wasn’t? Thus, I can count on one hand the number of authors who have really gone above and beyond, who have truly pulled me into their worlds, and made me weep, laugh, sob, and smile - all in the span of a few hours. Jay Kristoff, ladies and gentleman, is one of them. Yes, this debut author happens to be one of those few authors whose novel has truly impacted me, perhaps not in my life overall, but definitely in the few hours I spent reading it. While  Stormdancer  is, by no means, a perfect novel, it is a novel with creativity, originality, and most importantly, with heart. If that isn’t enough to constitute it as a masterpiece, then I don’t know what is. I think the first thing that strikes you about  Stormdancer,  aside from its  gorgeous  cover, is the amount of research Kristoff obviously put into his novel. The futuristic Japan of  Stormdancer  contains many of the same cultural aspects of society, politics, and government that present-day Japan possesses which makes for an extremely authentic read. In Kristoff’s world, the land has been destroyed by the planting of lotuses, the skies are red with pollution, and Yoritomo, the power-hungry leader of this dying land, seeks a legendary thunder tiger. Griffins, what we would call a thunder tiger, are believed to be extinct, thus, Yoritomo’s request to Masaru, the best tracker in the kingdom, and his daughter, Yukiko, is believed to be impossible to fulfill and bring about certain death. Yet, against all odds, Masaru and Yukiko  do  find a thunder tiger and it is at that moment when Yukiko’s life slowly begins to change. When the lies she believed were truths are exposed and the enemies she believed were friends are revealed, Yukiko finally comes to accept her true destiny and challenge the might of her corrupt empire itself. I’ll admit it -  Stormdancer  and I got off to a rocky start. While I soaked up the rich world-building in the first few chapters of the novel, I also found it to be rather cumbersome to read as it was bogged down by detailed descriptions of practically everything. Since I am an avid Dickens’ lover and tend to appreciate long-winded and descriptive writing, I was able to trudge through the first couple of pages until the real action began; yet, I think for a lot of readers, the beginning of this novel will be a real challenge. Nevertheless, the world-building is one to truly admire in this story. Kristoff has covered practically every aspect of his world, from social and cultural norms, to political and governmental conspiracies, and from the city mindset to that in the rural areas as well. It is a richly imagined and vividly real world that the reader is thrown into and I loved every minute I spent in it. While  Stormdancer  is most certainly notable for its world-building and even its scintillating plot filled with politics and rebellion, it is the characters that really make it shine. Yukiko, our strong-willed heroine, is a unique and refreshing character to come across. I loved her maturity, her courage, her bravery, her strength to fight for what was right, and most importantly, her bond with Buruu, the thunder tiger. Theirs is truly a remarkable friendship and I found myself to be charmed by its slow development and moved by the heart and soul it contained. While Yukiko and Buruu are remarkable characters on their own, together they form an unbeatable team and often times, it seems as if they are one person. Yet, while their thoughts flow together seamlessly, it is easy to tell them apart by their distinct traits which I believe is a true testimony to Kristoff’s writing abilities. While Yukiko and Buruu most definitely have the most interesting relationship in this novel, the most heart-warming one is that between Yukiko and her father, Masaru. I loved the manner in which this relationship evolved – it was complex, confusing, heart-breaking, yet truly impactful. I could feel all the conflicted emotions Yukiko felt towards her father in my own gut and felt such a strong pull towards the relationship between these two, perhaps because we all have fathers ourselves. Even Yukiko’s changing relationships with Masaru’s tracking friends, one of whom happens to be the woman he slept with while Yukiko’s mother was still alive, were very realistically written and developed. I also felt a strong bond towards Yukiko’s dead twin brother and I admired how wonderfully Yukiko herself had been shaped surrounding this grief. While she is initially a tough character to like, her relationships with others and her rocky past makes her a flawed character, but an understandable, relatable, lovable, and admirable one as well. I fear this review is going to be a long-winded, but there is simply so much to love about this tale. I love the manner in which the political schemes played out in this story and especially Kristoff’s portrayal of women. Kristoff shows us that women, for all their beauty and charm, can be just as deadly and cunning behind the doors and decked in pretty dresses. I think he truly captured the female mentality and portrayed it in an extremely positive and strong-willed light. Even in his romance, Yukiko always seems to have the upper hand and remains to be unattached to her lover – for the most part at least. I suppose my only complaint with this was that I never really felt anything for the small romance in this novel, but then again, I don’t think we were meant to. Yukiko doesn’t need a man to define her and similarly, this novel doesn’t need a romance to define it. It is so much more than a love story, a friendship story, or even a political one. It is a blend of all these ideas and even more than that. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again,  Stormdancer  has heart. It makes you feel for the relationships and friendships that are inside. It makes you hate the villains who are clever, cunning,  and  cruel – deadly combinations for sure. It makes you feel the fire of revenge, the cooling rain of friendship, and the wondrous feeling of loyalty. In fact, reading  Stormdancer  is so much like being Yukiko and living in her world that it is hard to catch your bearings when it is over. While it does have its flaws and I am sure many readers will find more faults with it than I have, I love  Stormdancer  for its originality, creativity, and for its ability to immerse me in a world with characters I can connect with. Furthermore,  Stormdancer  contains many subtle themes that blossom as the novel continues and while its ending isn’t a cliffhanger, it leaves you yearning for more. In every sense of the word,  Stormdancer  is a true literary wonder and an amazing  novel masterpiece.  Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for providing me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.  You can read this review and more on my blog, Ivy Book Bindings.