I now have a YouTube channel that I run with my brother, called 'The Brothers Gwynne'. Check it out - The Brothers GwynneSO EXCITED THAT WE GOT TO INTERVIEW JOE ABERCROMBIE! Check it out here - JOE ABERCROMBIE INTERVIEW“When one man knowingly kills another, they call it murder! When society causes the deaths of thousands, they shrug and call it a fact of life.” A Little Hatred is the first instalment in the Age of Madness trilogy, which is a continuation of the First Law. The world is evolving, in terms of technology and also arising powers, and as the reader we are thrust into the volatile political situation across the Union that appears to be coming to a culmination after decades of conflict.Joe Abercrombie is best known for his characters, and they are my favourite part of his works. The perspectives in A Little Hatred are all entirely new characters who we as the reader are meeting for the first time, but many of the supporting cast number are those who occupied key roles in the previous trilogy and the following standalone stories. There are a great mix of perspectives here, from Leo the Young Lion, to Rikke, to Prince Orso, who were my three favourite characters to follow, but there were a few more perspectives beyond this. Whilst I was not perhaps as attached to them as those of the first trilogy, they were still magnificent, and this is the only the first of the trilogy.“Guilt is a luxury reserved for those still breathing and with no unbearable pain, cold or hunger demanding all their fickle attention.” I really enjoyed the different factions, especially when you see the divisions that have healed, or more likely, opened since we last have been privy to the going-ons in these lands. Abercrombie does politics brilliantly, with the nuances of the characters and slightly different cultures lending themselves really well to how these lands interact with each other, with them ending in conflict more often than not.“The wiser a man is, the more he stands ready to be educated.”A Little Hatred is a great introduction to the latest trilogy by Joe Abercrombie, which you can read before any of the other books in the world. However, I would strongly recommend reading the backlog, with The First Law Trilogy, as some of the same characters feature, and many of figures allude to the happenings of the past. As always with Abercrombie, this is an accomplished, efficient and enjoyable read with great moments and great characters.4.75/5 STARS