I may officially be too old and too grumpy for this one. It’s overall a sweet story about a trans kid who tries to prove to his family that he’s a boy - and a brujo. Oh yeah, he also lives in the cemetery and sees ghosts (as I said, “brujo”) and it’s the family business to help ghosts cross to the other side. And then he meets a ghost boy, freshly murdered, and under supposed plot to uncover the mystery a whole bunch of tender teenage feelings develop, aided by banter* and oodles of cuteness. And there’s a bit of overabundance of messaging — to the point where I sigh and wish the author would stop hitting over the head with it and opt for subtlety at least once.*  “I’m not letting you abandon me in a haunted church—” “It’s not haunted!” “If I’m in here, and I’m a ghost, then it’s haunted!” Julian shot back.  And it may be my non-teenage grumpy soul complaining, but I found our protagonist Yadriel a bit too self-centered. I get that Yadriel’s family, while figuring out how to be accepting of him as a boy, makes a few missteps, and some are painful — but right when you learned your cousin just died and his mother is right there is not an appropriate moment to bring attention to misgendering and deadnaming. They are in shock over the death, pick a better timing, dude. Also, while I’m at it, please take a second to grieve before figuring out how you can benefit from solving it. Holy egoism, Batman! “Why did Yadriel always have to absolve people of their guilt? He didn’t want to be understanding. He didn’t have it in him to be forgiving this time.”Because your cousin just died and everyone is in shock. Duh. Have a sit down with them later and explain how it makes you feel, but give them space to grieve first.Overall it reminded me of an angsty teen movie, complete with a fast ride in an old car, with feelings galore and a fair share of lovesick gazing, and a lovestruck boy seriously telling the brother of his love interest he knew for a day or two - the brother who raised the abovementioned love interest - that he doesn’t know him at all (!), and of course love is always right. And the romantic subplot quickly took over the adventure subplot, making it very simple without much room to really develop and therefore with few real surprises, and often our characters just pointlessly go through the motions without it contributing much to the story and making it drag. That said, the romantic subplot at least arises organically, so at least there’s that — but it may have worked out better as simply a straightforward romantic story with generational conflicts thrown in without an attempt at mystery or supernatural.
But seriously, I actually wrote a note about 2/3 through in my Kindle app — “Can we stop the lovesick gazing and get back to the plot, please?”Imagine Yadriel instead of Demi Moore here. Keep the ghost.The narration itself leans a bit too heavily on overexplaining and exposition, and it led to a few grumpy eyerolls from me. There was constant repetition, making it feel overlong. The insta-love is a bit too insta (but that’s YA, I suppose — it’s all those teenage hormones going crazy). The ending is too sweet and too easy, and conveniently sweeps any possible hard choices under the rug for the sake of happy endings for all. Yadriel having to let Julian go would have been powerful, but instead we get the convenient resurrection which just cheapens the emotional stakes. And because of romance taking center stage, the more interesting plot points got dropped — what about Julian’s tense relationship with his brother, for instance? (And how the hell does the loads of sweet cuteness that is Julian ever get a reputation of a bad boy???)And all that made me feel bored and unengaged with the story. Who knows, maybe I would have loved it at 13-14 years old, but now it’s not enough to make me care more than just superficially.2.5 stars.——————My Hugo and Nebula Awards Reading Project 2021: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...