“Queer folks are like wolves. We travel in packs."Reading this book is like seeing a ray of sunshine break through eternal grey clouds. This is a straight up feel-good book. The characters are instantly loveable, honestly such an adorable bunch, from the trusting and kind main character and the loyal, sassy best friend, to the cutest pair of dogs alive (in fiction) and the chaotic good love interest. I love a character-driven story which is why the book worked really well for me, because the plot itself wasn't outstanding. It was pretty predictable - even when the author laid the groundwork for the plot in the beginning I could tell exactly where it was going and it didn't hold much of a surprise. The finale was very stereotypical, including the standard spiteful villain soliloquy and something I will mark as a - mc sacrifices themselves for their friends, basically dies, is then magically brought back to life - even though it's fairly common. It wasn't the most original part of the book, but it didn't bother me much because I just really liked the characters and the message behind the book. There's a chosen family trope that's really well done, it's super inclusive and portrays a great variety of Latinx cultures, there are many queer characters and I genuinely enjoyed reading a fantasy story with a trans main character, something we don't get to see often but more and more as of late. My only other criticism is that the writing could've benefitted from a little more attention to detail. When an author tells me "the dancers danced" I can't help rolling my eyes just a tiny bit knowing that they can do better than that.I'm struggling to decide whether to give this four or five stars. From a craft perspective it wasn't perfect, but it has so much heart and it's a very empowering story. So I think it's fair to give five stars. Aiden Thomas is someone to watch and I'm really hyped what he's going to do next. I'm not the biggest Peter Pan fan buts Lost in the Never Woods is a guaranteed 2021 read for me.Find more of my books on Instagram