"No, it wasn't the end. It was a better beginning." I really liked this book, it was so cute, I do have a few complaints which I'll get to in a second, but at the time that I read this book this was just what I needed! This book follows Yadriel, a trans boy, who is determined to prove his gender to his family and that he is a real brujo. With the help of his cousin, Maritza, he performs a retual to try an summon his murdered cousin's spirit. However, he end up summoning the ghost of the school's resident bad boy, Julian Diaz. Julian is determinated to find out what happened to him, so left with no choice Yadriel makes a bargain to help him. But the longer they spend time together, the less Yadriel wants let Julian leave. The plot was intriguing, but quite predictable. From the beginning of the book I said please let this character not be the villain, but low and behold, they were the villain. I was quite surprised by how predictable it was since I hear so many good things about this book and I never heard this book being depicted as predictable. But taking into consideration that this was a debut novel, the author did an amazing job. I loved learning more about Latinx community and the brujos, and I'm really interested to learn more about this topic and this culture. To be honest, I also found this book to be a bit more younger than I expected. This wasn't as dark as I expected. Like when I heard the word "ghost", I thought it would be a but more spookier, but, well, that did not happened. This book ended up being more of a rom-com, than spooky book. I really loved having Yadriel as a main character and, oh boy, I loved Julian. This was just the cute book that I needed. Although, I felt like the romance was a bit rushed and there could have been more development, I still really liked it. I love how Julian was so understanding of Yadriel. Yadriel struggled so much with his family and them not being able ot understand him, that was just what he needed, somebody to understand him. Maritza had to be my favourite character. She was so badass and, most importantly, she was always there for Yads, she was always there to help him when he needed. By the way, can we talk about her purple hair?! LOVE IT!!I really liked this book, but I am still sad that it ended up being predictable. Overlooking that, I am really excited to read more from this author in the future!