EDIT: 6/24/2020 So, I did NOT edit in a few days but that's okay because I wrote a TON of notes for this book. Here we go.2/5 starsI received an eARC from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. Oof, this review is going to be controversial, so fair warning! To be clear: it has nothing to do with the latinx, trans, or gay representation throughout the novel. All marginalized identities are presented in a positive, fulfilling, and engaging light, and my review does not take away from Thomas' ardent dedication to marginalized teens. This review has everything to do with style, voice, plot structure, character development, and even relationship dynamics. To be blunt: none of it was good. PROS:Worldbuilding: While I'm not a fan of the heavy exposition, I love the burjx community Thomas created. You can tell a lot of care was put into this setting, and I greatly respect that. Representation: It's great. Yadriel is a trans latinx man and I'm so grateful he exists. His relationship with his father mirrors the relationship between many latinx children and their parents, particularly if they're LGBT+. As non-binary latinx, I felt Thomas represented our community well. Julian was also wonderful gay representation: unconventional but still honest, kind, and even goofy. One of my favorite scenes involve Yadriel confronting his fears and insecurities revolving around his identity and Julian encouraging/supporting him the entire way through. Thomas also does a great job exploring a multigenerational latinx family, which again, I have personal experience of. Some scenes made me chuckle, given how closely they mirrored some of my own memories. CONS (minor spoilers below):Writing Style & Exposition: This, right here, is why I did not enjoy this book. Scenes dragged out for AGES, it felt like someone was oh so slowly dragging their nails against a chalkboard. The prose and Yadriel's voice is passive, dry, and lacks any flow, which all combined is a trifecta for reading displeasure. We are always told how people feel rather than shown. Instead of letting scenes play out, Thomas explains what people are doing and why they're doing it. Scenes, INCLUDING ACTION SCENES, lack any semblance of dynamic prose. Scenes that should be quick and engaging are not, weighed down by random tidbits we don't need during the tension. The start of this book especially should have been fast, electric, EXCITING. But it's bogged down by the prose and Thomas' lack of direction. There are literal pages of info-dumping and exposition that make it hard to stay engaged. SO MUCH of the novel is straight filler and holds no weight on the story, and history that the reader should be learning is thoroughly ignored for more irrelevancy. Like, did we NEED two pages of history for the ghost gardener? Whose only purpose was to corrupt and eventually attack the party? We did not! That time could have been used to develop Yadriel and Julian's relationship organically, or even add some weight to Yadriel's relationships with other characters, like his older brother or his uncle. Repetition: This gets its own section because holy wow. So much flushing. So many ears burning red. There are other ways the body shows embarrassment, please, omg. Plot: The romantic subplot takes over the main plot from about the 65% mark and doesn't let up until the 90% mark. Just straight up we abandon the main plot and the romantic subplot takes over. But that's not how it works. That's not why I'm here! I want the mystery solved AND Yadriel to get the boy. But if you abandon the WHOLE POINT OF THIS BOOK, the reader (me) is going to be frustrated! Yes, the scenes with Yadriel and Julian were very cute but they didn't advance the MAIN PLOT AT ALL. Because we abandoned it! Yadriel literally went "welp, fuck it" and went on a romantic day trip with his ghost boyfriend. And that works fine in fanfiction because that's all about wish fulfillment but that's not why I'm here! This is a novel, there needs to be point, there are beats you need to hit and Thomas just doesn't hit them. Literally 80% into the novel and we were not any closer to uncovering the mystery of what happened to Yadriel's cousin than we were at the start of the book! Villain: I can't discuss them much without giving them away, but if you're aware of standard fantasy tropes, you'll know who it is very early on. And unfortunately, they never reach their full potential. And even in the end, when we're given a very basic motivation, we're never given a real "why?" It's all very basic and I didn't care.Character Development: This ties into everything else but the characters are so stale. There is no depth to any of the secondary characters, and what little character we get from our main cast never really expands outside of their initial characterization. Sure, Yadriel becomes more confident in his brujo abilities, but that's about it. Relationship Development: Because of how passive the writing style is, I don't find Yadriel and Julian's romance very developed or even engaging. They barely feel like friends until the 65% mark hits, and then we got heart eyes galore. This is fine because their scenes thereafter are cute and their ending is sweet, but I would have LOVED it to be more fulfilling (and you know, in sync with the actual main plot). But if you're going to have your romantic subplot take over for about 25% of the novel, it better be developed well. And it wasn't, so again, I was frustrated by how much I disliked this entire novel's structure and pacing. So, there you have it. I feel like shit giving this novel such a bad review but these are my honest feelings. This book needed another round of edits, particularly a development editor who could have tightened the last half and a line editor to make Yadriel's voice more active and dynamic. I'm sure teens will love the representation as I did but everything else leaves so much to be desired.