Cemetery Boys follows Yadriel, a transgender teen who must deal with the consequences when he summons the ghost of Julian Diaz, the school’s resident bad boy, whom he can’t get rid of.

“Queer folks are like wolves,” Julian told him. “We travel in packs.”

This book. This damn book. I knew I was going to love it the minute I preordered and I was absolutely right. It was hella gay and hella queer and that was just the best. It had the right amount of everything: action, romance, a little bit of mystery, wholesome, cute moments and a really nice family dynamic and a hell of a lot of rich culture. One thing that I loved so much about this book was how much culture is embedded and wrapped into the story. There is so much of the Latinx culture and it warmed my heart to see it, from the festivals, to the different food, to the various members of the large family, to Yadriel’s own feelings. Everything was just presented and portrayed really well and I felt so immersed in the culture, to the point where I came away having learned more about it. It’s colourful and it’s vibrant and it’s beautiful and I just loved it all so much.

“Yadriel stared at the boy sitting next to him. A boy with a bright smile and an easy laugh. Who liked skateboarding the streets of Los Angeles and stargazing on the roof of his dad’s car. Who would do anything to protect his friends. Reckless and brilliant.”“Yadriel wanted to chase down the sunset. To not let it rise. How long after he was gone would Yadriel be dreaming about Julian and this drive? Yadriel thought it would be worth the sleepless nights ahead.”

Now, Yadriel is transgender and that is a large part of the story, as novel begins with him trying to summon a spirit in order to prove to his family that he is a real brujo. The main problem is Yadriel’s father, and it’s not like he doesn't outrightly accept him, more that he doesn’t understand his son and this is a journey that is developed further in the story and culminates in some really sweet moments. Now, not every transgender teen gets this sort of reception from their family but it was nice to see the portrayal to see a father really putting in work to accept his son for who he is and that was heartwarming to see. 

“Julian’s hips rolled, his head bobbed. Eyes closed and smiling, the firelight danced over his skin. Yadriel was drawn to him like a moth to a flame. To his foolhardy charm and striking features. Julian was achingly beautiful, but in the way a thunderstorm was beautiful—wild, rough, electric. And bound to leave devastation in his wake.”

We have to talk about the romance! And oh god was it delicious! It was slow burning, very slow burning, to the point where it made me ache! I just loved it so much. I loved Yadriel, who was such a wholesome character and I loved Julian so much because they way he was characterised was amazing. He was hilarious, and insanely loyal, and it was his unwavering loyalty for his friends and the people he cares about that truly cemented him as one of my favourite characters of this book. Their interactions were funny and tense at times and it culminated in a scene that genuinely made me cry. And I’m surprised that I cried because I knew it was coming but it managed to wreck my emotions anyway. I am really, really happy with the way the romance was handled and concluded but I just want more. Can we have a sequel, pretty please?

“I kind of made a mess of things, huh?” Yadriel said. He wasn’t fishing for sympathy, just stating the obvious. Keeping secrets from his family. Putting his foot in his mouth on more than one occasion. Completely botching the conversation with Julian’s friends. More sneaking, more lies. He was in over his head.“Yeah,” Julian agreed very matter-of-factly, not malicious or even teasing. “But now your mess is my mess, too.” He tilted his head toward Yadriel and spoke softly. “It’s bound to be easier if we’re both cleaning it up, right?”

Another one of my favourite aspects of the story was the friendship that were introduced, in particular the one between Yadriel and his cousin and best friend, Martiza who was also insanely loyal and supported Yadriel through everything. I loved the bond that they had, it was my favourite. But I absolutely adored Julian’s group of friends and was quite sad that we didn’t get to see more of them in the story. They were so varied and interesting and I wanted to see more of them, which is why I’m hoping there’s a sequel happening sometime soon.

“For the first time, it struck him how terribly unfair this all was. He hadn’t really thought about what it meant, when all of this was over, after he released Julian’s spirit and he was gone.He didn’t deserve death. He didn’t deserve any of this. Julian had literally died protecting his friends. And Yadriel was quite certain he didn’t deserve Julian. There was no reason for Julian to help him find Miguel, but he did it anyway, and there was no way Yadriel could ever repay him.He gave everything and expected nothing in return. Yadriel’s heart ached. No, none of them deserved Julian Diaz.”

Overall, Cemetery Boys was so wholesome and amazing. I love queer books like this. They make me laugh, they make me cry and they warm my heart so much. I cant wait to read more from this author and I will definitely be revisiting this one, only so I can have my emotions sent on a rollercoaster again!a gay book about a trans boy who may or may not be in love with a ghost? i didn't know i needed this until right now.