Ah, so this is super delightful. I did struggle with it initially because I’m kind of in a place in my life that I don’t feel super connected to YA stories in general. Because, y’know, I’m fucking old. But, anyway, this book is so warm, so very charming that I was pretty soon swept away.The story centres on Yadriel—he’s gay and transgender, and wants to accepted by his traditional Latinx family, not just as who he is, but as a brujo: someone gifted with my magic by Lady Death, who helps souls find their way to the afterlife. Denied the opportunity to present himself to Lady Death by his family, Yadriel goes through the ritual with his cousin, Maritza, and duly receives the power from the brujo. Only for his first attempt to sever the cord tying a ghost to the world of the living go more than slightly awry, embroiling him with the highly unquiet ghost of Julian Diaz, a murder mystery and ultimately a plot of mystical usurpation. Plotwise, it’s really pacey and engaging, although I will say it’s fairly obvious what’s going on by the midway point, especially when the narrative somewhat clumsily finds an excuse to drop a lot of information about Balam on you. But, really, the strength of this novel lies in its character work, the nuanced way it explores its themes of tradition, family and identity, and the love story which tender and gorgeous and completely hit all my romance reader buttons. I should also mention there’s some pretty heavy shit in this novel—a lot of it to do with the real world consequences of marginalised identity, especially on the young. Julian and his queer Latinx friendship circle are social outcasts in the deepest sense: abandoned by the very systems, education, residential care, health, immigration, that should be there to protect them. With my teacher hat on, I’m pretty sure Julian himself has undiagnosed ADHD. Which made me feel all protective and angry for a fictional character. And takes us neatly back to the wonderful characters—all of whom jump cleanly and clearly off the page, even if they’re only present for a scene or two. Although, of course, Yads, Julian and Maritza are *chef’s kiss*. I mean, there’s an extent to which they’re the sort of people you expect to encounter in a YA, Yads is the slightly anxious but endlessly relatable protagonist, Julian is the force of nature love interest, and Maritza is the ever-dependable, uber-confident best friend. But they’re all written with such commitment and affection that they quickly become their own people. I will note I was especially fond of Julian’s malapropisms.Obviously it’s way way out of my lane to go into too much detail about the portrayal of Yads’ transness (it felt nuanced, respectful and well done to me but what the fuck do I know?) but I do think, more broadly, his identity does raise interesting questions and—I should hasten to add, from a purely fictional, genre-centric perspective—about the role of trans characters in highly gendered magic systems. There’s a bit towards the end of the novel where Maritza has a go at Lady Death about something unrelated, and I was really struck by the fact Maritza is the only person in the whole book remotely critical of Lady Death and the frankly problematic way she hands out magic powers, especially because Maritza is a vegan and therefore can’t do healing because she won’t use animal blood. I mean, obviously the gendered magic system is meant to reflect upon the gendered nature of some social traditions: but what I don’t understand is that if Lady Death is cool with trans identity, why can’t she let women do the spirit guide thing, instead of the healer thing if they’re not into healing?But this gets very tangled because there is a bit where Julian asks Yads about why being a brujo is so important to him, pointing out that Yads doesn’t need anyone’s permission to be who is he, nor should he have to provide “proof” of it. But the fact that Lady Death grants Yads his brujo powers, and accepting him without question, is one of the ways the book establishes early on that Yads’ gender identity is not up for external questioning. And that’s not really about the book so much as the larger social context in which the book exists. While I think we’re moving away from all trans stories having to be about either transitioning or oppression (much in the way that all cis queer stories previously had to be about coming out oppression) but I think writers still have to sort of work around the reality that not everyone is on the trans-identity-is-real-and-none-of-your-business train.Of course this does lead to a situation in which Yads’ father, who is doing so-so on the acceptance front, finally realises that Yads is who he says he is because he witnesses Yads doing the brujo bit. And that kind of begs the question what you do if you’re a trans teenager and don’t have a literal god on side to present incontrovertible testimony of your gender identity. Basically I understand the power of having an authority figure within the text reinforce Yads’ own (I should clarify unwavering) sense of his gender identity but I do think this takes us to some complicated places when considered more broadly. Obviously I’m out of my lane again, but what makes trans identity “real” is an incredibly fucked up social debate we’re all apparently having at the moment, whether we want to or not? And I guess for me the issue with Lady Death is that, from a certain perspective, there’s no difference between her and a man in a white coat who decides you get to go on hormones. They’re both abstract external authority figures who are deemed to validate something that shouldn’t require validation.When people tell us who they are, we should probably just believe them, you know?Anyway anyway anyway.Gorgeous book. Strongly recommend. So happy it exists.