What a PHENOMENAL YA debut fantasy! I mean I haven't read anything like this ever. And please please please if you read this book do not attempt to compare it to Children of Blood and Bone. 4.5 StarsTrigger Warnings: parental emotional abuse, blood magic, death of children, rape Thank you to Abram Books and Hear Our Voices Book Tour for allowing me to not only be a part of this tour, but also for providing me with an ARC. All thoughts are my own. I don't know what I was expecting when I picked up Raybearer, but it was not this! Oh my goodness this book was AMAZING. Ifueko crafts this brilliant world where we find out that our main character Tarisai is being raised to not only become part of the crowned Prince's council of 11, but to also kill the prince. This novel is complex in so many different ways from the world building to the magic system. Although this book has some basis in West African myths and legends it does not put an emphasis on the Orisha which means that Ifueko created this brand new world in which the religions and customs and traditions of each realm were those that she developed herself. I know it must have taken a lot of time and consideration to build such a complex and intricate world. One of the most interesting aspects of this magic system is the "ray." Every crown prince in the empire is destined to connect to 11 members of the other realms. Each person represents a realm. As children they compete to connect to the prince through this Ray. The bond that they have is unlike anything that I have seen in any other book. And Ifueko utilizes this as an opportunity to illustrate the importance, the significance of friendships. There are also some heavy themes covered in this book like generational trauma and identity as well as gender roles. The women in this book have to fight to define their place not only in their families, but in the empire as a whole. Tarisai has to learn to navigate and carve out her own life and purpose, one that is separate from The Lady's. Watching her develop as a character was such a beautiful experience especially since she has so many doubts about her identity and where she stands within her circle of friends. While there was a hint of romance in this book, I truly loved that Ifueko used the love found in friendships to help Tarisai figure out who she needed to be in this complex world. It made me root for all of them the entire way. Speaking of characters, Ifueko knows how to right complex and multi-dimensional characters. NO ONE and I mean absolutely no one was a black and white type of character. Everyone had character flaws and you could see how some characters were a product of the way in which they were treated by the generations that came before them. It makes you feel for characters that you would typically even consider the villians. The only criticism that I have of this book is the pacing. I found parts of the beginning to be rather slow, but when the action picked up I'm tell you I couldn't put this book down. There were so many twists and turns that genuinely caught me by surprise. There was no way I could have figured out how everyone was connected in this book and that's only half of thrill of this book. If you haven't picked up this book please I'm begging you to purchase it when it comes out. It's definitely well worth a read.