Raybearer is a good fantasy book, but it's disorganized. It opens and ends strong, but there were some choices along the way that threw me off.There are 3 key things to know about protagonist Tarisai:1. She has special powers from special parents,2. She is to participate in a competition to select the crown prince's future council, and3. She must obey her mother's command to kill said crown prince or else.This is a solid framework for a story; each piece fits so perfectly with the others that it really writes itself.But then some choices were made Choice #1Four-year time jump. While time jumps have their place, they need to be executed carefully so as to not be disorienting. The time jump in Raybearer skips over Tarisai's formative years from ages 11-15, most of the selection process for the prince's council (aka the eleven Anointed Ones), worldbuilding opportunities (esp. Aritsar's relationship to Songland and the Underworld), further development of the magic system, Tarisai's growing friendships - just so much, really. Too much to get skipped.As the Anointed Ones' magic system is reliant on their bonds to one another and Prince Dayo, skipping over Tarisai growing up with them and building these relationships is such a misstep. Once all the Anointed Ones are chosen, aside from Tarisai, Kirah, and Sanjeet, we're just given a laundry list of who the others are and what powers they have. These eight others then peace out until the book's climax, when we're told how much Tarisai cares about them. Honestly, this is just lip service because the narrative is only interested in Tarisai's relationships with Sanjeet, Dayo, and Kirah.Choice #2Amnesia subplot.I'll give Raybearer credit here: the amnesia subplot is directly related to Tarisai's powers - being able to read, subdue, and give memories. To avoid fulfilling her mother's order of killing Prince Dayo, Tarisai uses her magic on herself to repress her memories. She subsequently forgets her parents, her upbringing, her teachers, her homeland of Swana - everything until she got to the palace.But a tired plotline's a tired plotline.What's weird is that Tarisai loses her memory on page 89, only to regain it on page 155. That's only 67 pages of memory loss. 67 pages of stilted blissful ignorance. It's so inconsequential, I don't understand why it was included.Author Jordan Ifueko did a great job conveying Tarisai's guilt over her mission, especially as her affinity for Dayo grew. Writing in an amnesia subplot halts this character work and lowers the stakes - two things Ifueko had already been handling well. I'm not sure why she incorporated it, especially if Tarisai was going to remember and try to kill Dayo in ~67 pages anyway.Later, at the 80% mark, Dayo reveals he knew about Tarisai's mission and memory loss...and tried to ensure she never remembered. He did this by not allowing her to think about Swana - her homeland or her culture - or interact with any of her people... And this is presented as a good thing, "to protect them both". I'm not sure if the amnesia was ultimately implemented for this “relationship development”, but it's not a good look.Choice #3Tarisai tries to kill Dayo too early.After getting her memory back and recalling her mother's command to kill the prince, Tarisai stabs him on page 160. Considering the 3 key elements I mentioned earlier, it would seem to me that this event would be the logical climax of the book, with everything - their growing bond, their shared experiences - leading to this moment.But it instead happens less than halfway through the book.After a four-year time jump.After an amnesia subplot.Maybe this is only significant to me, but I felt the order of the whole story was thrown off. Tarisai faces no consequences for stabbing the prince, aside from Sanjeet being pissed at her. She should've been arrested, her removal then throwing the other Anointed Ones into calamity for their separation from her...but everyone (including stabbed Dayo, minus Sanjeet) is very forgiving of her.As Tarisai is left to her own reconnaissance, the book becomes her and Sanjeet, now friends turned enemies, fast-traveling together to gain information she already knew: Her mother's command can only be disobeyed if her mother is killed. Conveniently, just when Tarisai wants to confront her mother, she learns that she had already been arrested back at the castle offscreen.Choice #4Not enough focus on Songland and the Redemptors.In the Empire of Aritsar, the people of Songland are forced to sacrifice their children to appease the spirits of the Underworld, a duty forced upon them for refusing to relinquish their sovereignty generations before. For this same reason, they aren't allowed to trade with any of Aritsar's twelve nations, despite their bountiful rice production, leaving them with limited resources.Sometimes, the Redemptor children come back from the dead, haunted and changed. Most times, they don't.Tarisai, a citizen of Aritsar, interacts with two Songland citizens: Woo In, a former Redemptor and onetime prince who became one of her teachers, and Ye Eun, a little girl due to be sacrificed. Woo In first introduces her to Songland's oppression and brings Ye Eun to her to put a human face to the crisis.As she had been assigned the role of the prince's High Judge, Tarisai considers ways to use her power to stop the sacrifice, but such deliberation gets waylaid due to prince-stabbing and friends-to-enemies traveling. Songland's issues aren't returned to until the very end when Woo In literally flies Tarisai there and Ye Eun shows up like, "Remember me?"While Tarisai makes a deal with the Underworld in hopes of stopping further sacrifice in the 2nd book - a conclusion I found satisfying, I wish this plot hadn't been pushed aside until Tarisai's personal issues were sorted out. To me, Songland's concerns were much more pressing than anything else in the book, and I wish they had been given more focus.Semi-Choice #5 - something that might be addressed in RedemptorThe power structure.The Empire of Aritsar has a history of horrible rulers in its monarchy. Ifueko deftly illustrates how individual idiosyncrasies, jealousy, and greed can lead to poor policymaking, and she shows some of the fallout of these poor decisions, e.g. Songland. As demonstrated by the previous rulers' behavior, it would seem for the best that Aritsar's crown be overthrown and a new system of governance be instituted.But the conclusion reached in Raybearer makes me nervous this won't happen, though I'll hold out hope.Tarisai discovers precedent for an Emperor and an Empress to rule Aritsar (a position traditionally only held by male heirs), and, having been revealed as Dayo's cousin, prepares to assume rule with him. Both are confident they can check and balance each other, leading to a better reign.While this is nice, I find it shortsighted. Sure, Tarisai and Dayo are good people, but what about their great-grandchildren? Their great-great-grandchildren? What guarantee is there that the cycle of bad leadership will end with them?The solution to a bad king isn't a good king - the solution is no king at all. From Redemptor's description, I understand a character called the Crocodile will inspire dissent in the Empire. I hope they're successful!Regardless of these choices, Raybearer remains a solid YA fantasy, and among the better ones. I enjoyed it, despite some side-eye ;)