Read the full review @A Perfection Called BooksWith a heavy heart, I write this review. TMI is the series that rekindled my love of reading. I was so invested in this series, and I'm so sad that it's come to a close. But darn, Cassie ended it well. Warning: This book will make you so emotionally unstable. You'll go from angry to remorseful, happy to sad, laughing to crying, and so on. This book was everything I hoped for and more. Me While Reading This Book:The Writing:Cassie Clare never ceases to amaze me with her skilled writing. I had no idea how she was going to tie up her all the loose ends and create a satisfying end. Somehow she did it, and better yet, she did it well. I love the deep complex characters, the twisting plots, the humor, the action, the deception, the drama, the wit, and crazy parallels and connections to TID. Her writing is consistent and lovely. The third person POV with switches between characters works really well, and she's really descriptive. I can always picture in my head what's going on in the story. I had no idea what was going to happen in this book. Clare kept me guessing until the end. Everything was just so beautifully written and wonderfully done. She's a writing god!! The Plot:I love how this book wasted no time. Cassie Clare just went right into it! End of Chapter 1 *BAM* they're going to Idris!! Thank god. I thought I was going to have to wait ten chapter for them to return to the homeland. This book was packed full with awesome elements. There was the perfect blend of action, drama, romance, humor, mystery, adventure, and betrayal.There was a great balance between grave, sad moments and light happy moments. This book is a whooping 725 pages yet somehow this book doesn't seem too slow or fast-paced. Everything was timed out well. Every scene was there for a reason, there weren't any dragging and boring moments. I liked how she wrote it so that not everyone got away unscathed by the end. It wasn't a total HEA but still happy! The Characters:I am going to miss all of these characters so so much. These characters have come so far. I'm so proud of them and all they've accomplished and overcome in this series. I love these characters so much, and I can't let them go! The Romance:The romance in this book was so adorable. Clace was perfect Clace. They trust, they confide in, they love. They've finally worked out their relationship problems. Sizzy DTRed!! Yay! I love Sizzy but it annoyed me how they never really talked about their feelings. They keep putting it off or just don't talk about it. Malec was amazing. I've never been really crazy about them, but I totally shipped them in this book. They saw their own flaws and fixed them. They came to terms with things and decided to just be happy and be together! Some Awesome Quotes:-"Heroes aren't always the ones who win," she said. "They're the ones who lose, sometimes. But they keep fighting, they keep coming back. They don't give up. That's what makes them heroes."-"Shadow hunters are the Angel's weapons. Temper us in fire, and we grow stronger. When we suffer, we survive."-"Because the world isn't divided into the special and the ordinary. Everyone has the potential to be extra ordinary."The Deaths:The deaths aren't anywhere near as bad as people claimed them to be. Don't worry you'll survive. You might shed some tears as I did, but trust me, it will all be okay.^^Karma for some of those deathsThe Humor:"'The guard are there to protect us, not keep us in. Have some perspective.' 'Alec, you've known me for seven years,' said Jace. 'When have I ever had perspective?'"'''Brother Zachariah,' Isabelle said. 'Months January through December of the Hot Silent Brothers Calendar. What’s he doing here?' 'There’s a Hot Silent Brothers Calendar?' said Alec. 'Do they sell it?'" "'You're pining,' said Jace.Alec shrugged. 'Look who's talking. "oh I love her. Oh, she's my sister. Oh why, why, why—"'"The Climax:The Denouement:Jem and Tessa:Ahh I loved reading the parts with Jem and Tessa. Ugh I kept tearing up when I read so many of those TID references. JESSAMINE. Oh god. And there were Will references all over the place. ;( I love how Cassie added Jem and Tessa to the book. Tessa and Jem truly deserve each other. They are such good people and gosh, after everything they've been through they so deserve to be happy. I hope we see a wedding for them sometime in the future. I hope that Tessa tells Jace of their relation and Jem does likewise with Emma. So then they're both not totally alone. AND It's hinted that Jem and Tessa might be in TDA. And they got Church back! :D The Blackthorns and TDA:I am so happy that we got to meet the main cast of The Dark Artifices. I love the Blackthorns family already! In TMI there was the focus surrounding The Crew (Sizzy, Clace, and Alec) but that was about it. It's going to be fun to read of more people in the main cast all together. All of the characters so far seem so realistic and relatable and adorable and sweet and complex! Emma Carstairs is so awesome! She's like a smaller female version of Jace XD And Julian is so adorable and fiercely protective. With the glittering setting of Los Angeles and chock full of great characters, I am SO EXCITED for Lady Midnight, out Fall 2015. The Ending:The ending was truly bittersweet. Not everything in the Shadow World turned out perfectly. There are scars and many mistakes made that might turn into problems later. It was truly "the saddest happy ending." Not everyone came out unscathed. I liked that Cassie Clare didn't make the all-around perfect HEA. In terms of what happened for these characters, I think besides the little hurtful prick/twist they pretty much got their HEAs. After Finishing The Book:It's hard to say goodbye to this series. I love how CoHF ends brightly and optimistically. Cassie Clare lets the reader imagine what the future holds for these characters. In that way, these characters will always still be with us, their story still lives on. I know that I will carry this lovely story in my heart for the rest of my life and although TMI is over, we'll always remember. This series has been a wonderful journey that I will never forget. I find it only fitting that I end my review with a quote from Cassie:"We are the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who love us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss." -Cassandra ClarePRE READING:UPDATE 5/30/14 Finished the book. Crying. Literally crying. Review to come. Below are some gifs and pics that epitomize my feelings and emotions regarding this finale of my most beloved series.UPDATE 5/26/14IT COMES OUT IN A MERE 10.5 HOURS. TWO YEARS OF WAITING IS NOW ALMOST OVER. :D My plan:Today sleep from 4-9 PMStudy for school 9-11PMRead City of Heavenly Fire as it appears on my iPad Stand from 11PM-2AM ^^Heck yeah. UPDATE 4/22/14 only 34 days until CoHF!! asdfghjklasdfghjklasdfghjklasdfghjklllllllllUPDATE 4/11/14Oh my gosh, less than 50 days until CoHF comes out!! *fangirls* I've been waiting for this for so long... And now the time is almost upon us. Will the shadowhunters be able to defeat Sebastian once and for all? Or will they die trying? UPDATE 1/1/14 CITY OF HEAVENLY FIRE WILL BE 733 GLORIOUS PAGES AND COMES OUT IN LESS THAN FIVE MONTHS :0ASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLASDFGHJKLUPDATE 1/16/14THE BEAUTIFUL COVER: I. Want. This. Now. My concerns:My reactions:To sum up my emotions:City of Heavenly Fire, I. Am. Ready.