2 Wait.. Was that it? Stars Major Spoilers AheadOkay so let me get this straight I read 6 books in this series, the last book over 700 pages and that was the ending CC gave us readers really? I have to say I am pretty disappointed in the way the whole series played out. The first 3 books were really good but I feel like the last 3 though okay lacked depth of character, and depth of the on going relationships. Maybe it's because there was so many storylines going at once( CC could totally give JR Ward a run for her money when it comes to multiple storylines.) Whatever it was it made me feel like something was missing. For instance we have 3 major relationship going on in this series (Jace and Clary, Simon and Izzy, Alec and Magnus) and like 3 side relationships(Maia and Jordan, Luke and Jocelyn and Maryse and Robert) Now I can understand not getting deep on the side relationships, but I as a reader should feel the love between the major 3 and I didn't. Jace and Clary I did but even their's could have been stronger. Maybe if they had been able to be together more in the books. Simon and Izzy were a total let down. Their relationship consist of a few kisses Izzy acting like a cold bitch for 5 books then towards the end of book 6( which again is over 700 pages) them telling each other they love each other. Really? Then CC goes and takes Simons memories of Izzy and everyone else! God I was pissed!Why? There was already tons of drama in this book. Why would you be so cruel to Simon? I mean you turn him human and wipe his memories of everyone Izzy, Jace, Alec, and Clary. And Simon wasn't the only over the top dramatic thing that happens in this book that left a bad taste in my mouth. Lets talk about Jordan..... Poor Jordan he and Maia dated and were in love back in the day. Then he gets in a fight with a guy (werewolf) gets bit and turns werewolf. Now he doesn't know that was happening and it was causing him to be out of control. He was abusive to Maia and then he bites and turns her. All bad stuff. Okay so when he turns he finds help and trains to become like the person who helped him. Trains to keep other newly turned wolves from going rogue like he did and hurting the ones they love too. So for years he is ate up with guilt and still loves Maia never touches another woman not even a kiss. So when Maia and Jordan got back together (Maia forgave him because she knows when you are first turned you can't control things and have black out rages) I was so happy. Then she started acting cold to him in this book. She started pulling away. Just out of the blue. The last book ended and they were fine. Now she is having trouble forgiving the past and doesn't want to be with him? Then CC kills Jordan! Yup kills him and Maia tells Bat her ex that she was planning to break up with him because she didn't really get over the past. So he died and the woman he loved didn't really love him back. God!And the whole Emma/Jules/ Blackthorn family plot line bored me. I started skipping their part of the book completely. I just didn't care. Why was she trying to start a whole new story plot with a whole new set of characters? Ohhh I know why because she started a spin off series with them. But I don't care. Just sayin'! Maybe if I would have met them in book 1-3 I could have connected but the last book...pfff whatevs!  Now lets talk about that epilogue. It felt more like a HFN than a HEA and this is the last book in the series so Where is the wrap up? I got no real closure. No marriages, no babies no future. Just 6 months later and Jace and Clary are together, Simon can't really remember much but kinda remembers a very little thanks to Magnus, and everything is pretty much the same as the last 5 books. WTF there are no more books in this series so why leave things feeling unfinished. I get she is doing spin off series left and right but damn I needed closure! I feel like I just wasted my time and got nothing from it. I was just so disappointed and unsatisfied. I still gave the book 2 stars because there are some good parts and tons of action but overall it could have been so so so much better!