This was a really adorable book, altho I think you have to be in the right mood for it. When I started reading it I bogged down a little in an atmosphere which I found sort of Fucking Twee, and then I went back to it later and found it much easier to get into. I really liked the characterizations of Rosie and Peony, especially how they were both good characters without being wimpy or Mary Sues; and I really liked their friendship -- it's a v Chloe-liked-Olivia kind of book. It was interesting to read how Rosie is defended by the 'ordinary' upbringing she had in the Gig in light of McKinley's later heroine Rae in Sunshine, and that theme of the 'ordinary' girl having strength not despite her rough origins but because of them really goes all the way back to Beauty (my favourite of McKinley's novels and the first book of hers I ever read). I didn't like Narl very much at first and he didn't seem to become a fully realized character almost until the end of the book; Rowland seemed better-written, but he shows up so late and says so little I didn't feel like he had much impact on the story either. But that's perhaps the point: the book isn't about the two love interests, but about the two girls and the question of female identity, how who are you are is shaped by expectations and social roles, and what happens to girls who conform or disobey. (I doubt McKinley would say this -- or even agree with it -- but Rosie is clearly genderqueer to some extent, not just in her short hair and dislike of dresses and dancing and embroidery and so on, but also in her aggression and power and volubility -- at one point she's affectionately referred to as a "thug"! This genderqueering goes on all the way up to the end with the surprise kiss and the use of the, er, spindle.) The book is also just as much about Rosie's relation to the living, teeming natural world, and her 'beast-speech' gift is an example of that connection. I loved how here it's not just the great horses or the sighthounds (the queen, whom I don't think is ever named -- boo -- clearly comes from the country in Deerskin, which I found charming) that are characters in their own right but almost every animal -- the foxes, the mice, Sunflower the slobbery dogge, even the spider. Like the description of the great iron gates Narl makes, the flowers and the land and the animals and the vitality of life running through them all -- Thomas's 'force that through the green fuse drives the flower' -- are all intertwined and related to each other, and the book is also a kind of meditation on kinds of power, and the uses of power.The one thing about the worldbuilding that did put me off to some extent was the magic -- not the endless detailing of the rules in the AU McKinley set up, which felt like it was meant to be charming but was actually tedious in the very beginning (the fish jokes got annoying as the book went on), but more how the big magical moments worked. It felt, like in Deerskin, that there was some kind of very deep almost Jungian symbology going on behind certain events which explained the way things were happening, and I just didn't have the right cipher to crack the code, although possibly this kind of confusion was intentional. This made for scenes which felt almost starkly mythic (Rosie's journey to the castle in the barren lands also reminded me of Rae's long nightmarish walk in Sunshine) in sharp, almost disorienting contrast to the extreme wealth of detail about 'mundane' life. Again, this could be intentional on McKinley's part and reminded me a lot of similar blendings in Peter S. Beagle's books (A Fine and Private Place, The Folk of the Air), except the elements feel better blended in his writing.***I also forgot to add I finally read one of the bits that made me want to read this book -- or rather, someone's description of it, long ago -- a half-sentence-long rewriting of the Orpehus myth (which I'm obsessed with!) into a fable of fidelity in a kind of half-glance that is as much of a rewriting of mythical elements as Rosie's kiss or the spindle. It's a great example of how a tiny detail can be just as important as a big supershiny 'singularity' in terms of writing alternative worlds.