Note to self: STOP READING YA BOOKS. I'm not sure at what age most YA books become underwhelming, but for me, I have apparently already passed that point. The only one I have read and really liked this year was Pawn. That's exactly one out of nine YA books (including this one). It's no longer worth it to me to wade through YA books to find the ones I consider gems.As far as the review for this actual book: - Absolutely go the audiobook route. There's several little 'songs' in the book and the narrator does a great job with them. - The main issue I have is a plot hole that I just couldn't get past the main character, Tarisai, is the daughter of 'The Lady' and a magical being called an alagbato whom The Lady forced to grant three wishes. Her second wish was the death of someone, but the alagbato said that was beyond his power. So instead she demands that the alagbato make a child with her as her second wish instead. Then her third wish is for the child, Tarisai, to kill the son of the man she originally wanted killed. WHY was it possible for her wish to work on Tarisai but not on the alagbato? It's never explained. UPDATE 4/5/2021! Thanks to Sinjorina's comment below, this has been mostly solved. The Lady wishes specifically for Olugbade's death and the alagbato responds with "Not allowed. Life and death are beyond my power. Especially that life. Even fairies may not kill a Raybearer." So based on that, we can assume that the rules that we later learn must apply - only a Raybearer's council can kill him. Which is why The Lady uses her second wish to have a child, so that her child may be on the Raybearer's council (and thus able to kill a Raybearer), and that child is part alagbato and thus will be constrained to carrying out her third wish, which is to kill the Raybearer. However, it still doesn't fully explain the alagbato's statement that "Life and Death are beyond my power." I can only assume he means he cannot MAGICALLY kill him, but physical killing is still possible (just not for a Raybearer specifically)?- I didn't realize this was the first book in a series and so a huge part of the story is not wrapped up, much to my dismay.