The Green Bone Saga has me in a violent chokehold, and this sequel may as well be the nail in the coffin…....more specifically: Kaul Hilo continues to be a personal problem for me, because this book effectively blurred the lines between loving and hating him and now I’m just floating in a weird space of morally grey sludge and who am I kidding he is definitely still my favourite. Damn you, Fonda Lee. “I didn't think you believed in the gods,” she said when he straightened.“I don't,” Hilo said, “but the feeling's mutual, so maybe they won't hold it against me.”For those of you who have no idea what I’m rambling about, may I humbly present to you: an Asian-inspired, Godfather esque urban fantasy, centered around a cutthroat family clan fighting for control of their island’s magical sense-enhancing jade. Premise is on point, characters are all a little bit evil, and the plot is absolutely wild. What more could you want? Nothing, silly, because this series is everything. Jade City was insanely good. Naturally, I had crazy high hopes that Jade War would be a sequel to end all sequels, eclipsing even its amazing predecessor. Call me psychic, because Fonda Lee absolutely did that. I’ve never had to take so many damn ‘breathers’ while reading a book before this one crashed into my life. The Kaul family and their ruinous rivalry with the Mountain clan is going to ruin my life.Kekon Island is such a vibrant home-base for this series. Its bustling streets filled with gangsters, thieves, shopkeeps and clan warriors make the pages come alive, to the point that I can practically feel the hum of jade running through the city’s veins. Jade War took the island’s foundation and expanded it tenfold, introducing us intimately to the cultures of the surrounding regions like Espenia, and raising tensions by tying these foreign places irreversibly to the fate of the clan. I loved learning the nuances and politics of neighbouring regions offshore from the Kaul family’s homeland—it made everything feel so much bigger in this sequel. The masterful wordbuilding and heady atmosphere alone are enough to warrant my admiration.The number of crazy fights, assasination plots, and generally anxiety-inducing plot twists in Jade War made this book utterly unputdownable for me. I mean, I could rattle off at least four or five scenes where I had to pause and contemplate how the hell what I was reading actually just happened. Fonda Lee is hardcore alright; I owe my fractured little heart to her after all the pain I’ve been through with this series. Her action scenes remain top-tier (I’d expect no less from a real-life black belt), never feeling rushed or dragging. They cut deep, and leave you reeling from the impact without fail. Just amazing.“The possibility of death was like the weather—you could make attempts to predict it, but you would likely be wrong, and no one would change their most important plans due to threat of rain.”Ever since Fonda Lee showed us a glimpse of Anden’s potential in Jade City, I was thoroughly enamoured with his character, hoping he would play a more integral role in the rest of the series. Turns out I would fret no longer, because the growth Anden went through in Jade War was just incredible. Having Anden essentially exiled to Espenia, and using his experiences as a foreigner to broaden the world-building beyond Kekon Island was so clever. Beyond that, I adored seeing him come into his own in a place distant from the pressing influence of jade and the clan. Anden’s relationship with Cory tugged on my heartstrings; bittersweet throughout, being many of Anden’s firsts, I can’t even say I’m all that mad about how things resulted between them (next conquest: Lott Jin??). Anden is such a complex person, and his internal struggle with the choice not to wear jade never fails to get me. In both Jade City and Jade War, he’s been the focus of my personal favourite or ‘standout’ scenes, so he’s climbing the ranks to possibly become my favourite character.I could write a whole novel about Hilo, but I’ll try to keep it short for my sanity’s sake. He threw me for a thousand loops in this installment, with one decision in particular that had me abruptly stop reading, dread washing through my body, staring into space thinking there is no way that just happened. Sometimes, I wanted to scream at him. Sometimes, I was cheering for him. Other times, I wanted to envelop him in a tender hug. It was nervous about Hilo taking his role as Pillar of the clan head-on, being forced to mature from a renowned street-fighting brute into a more resolved leader. Admittedly, I didn’t think him capable of holding down such a role, though his growth was profound over the four-to-five years that passed in this book. I am so invested in his character, and am once again praying that Fonda Lee spares him in the series finale…Shae …lord, where do I begin. She—like Hilo—drove me a little bit insane this book. I was so looking forward to more badassery from her, especially after she went rampaging through the streets with Hilo in Jade City following a certain *hem* tragedy. I couldn’t tell if I felt sorry for her, or sorry for the people around her (who often had to take the fall for what were ultimately her tough choices). Her journey was emotional as all hell, and while I wanted to shake some sense into her at times, I was thoroughly glues to the pages anytime her chapters appeared. I adored the sisterly bond she and Wen shared, with Wen always having the best advice and reassurances around. Also, that duel between Shae and Ayt? So good!!! Yeah, this review is way too long, but I can’t help myself when it comes to this series. Anyways, if I haven’t yelled it enough, go read these books!