“Change is inevitable, Kaul-jen; the only question is whether we control its direction or become victims of a landslide.”So What’s It About?On the island of Kekon, the Kaul family is locked in a violent feud for control of the capital city and the supply of magical jade that endows trained Green Bone warriors with supernatural powers they alone have possessed for hundreds of years.Beyond Kekon's borders, war is brewing. Powerful foreign governments and mercenary criminal kingpins alike turn their eyes on the island nation. Jade, Kekon's most prized resource, could make them rich - or give them the edge they'd need to topple their rivals.Faced with threats on all sides, the Kaul family is forced to form new and dangerous alliances, confront enemies in the darkest streets and the tallest office towers, and put honor aside in order to do whatever it takes to ensure their own survival - and that of all the Green Bones of Kekon.What I ThoughtThe first word that comes to mind when I think about this series is “realistic.” More than ever, the world just feels so entirely real with its modernization and its countries with complex histories and relationships. In Jade War, the world-building is expanded with proxy wars, smugglers, and a look at life for Kekonese immigrants in Espenia. I feel like Lee has an incredible talent for little touches that make the world feel so much more real, especially when it comes to the practicalities of what magic like jade would be like - there are gendered dynamics to being “green;” we get to see how the rest of the world sees jade based on pop culture (and this is even influenced by the barukan that Green Bones hold in so much contempt). Kespenians see the Green Bones as “old-fashioned goons” but have nevertheless modified their traditions to be, as Anden sees it, both a distillation of Kekon and a grotesque caricature and something entirely new all in one. Jumping off that point, the huge overarching conflict in this series is between a rapidly globalizing, modernizing and neocolonialist world and Kekon, which is steeped in tradition, isolationism and ethnocentrism but trying to modify, adapt and stay powerful and relevant. The clans and their war are at the heart of this conflict, and Lee does such a thoughtful job of showing how they walk a tenuous line of trying to do what is best for themselves and Kekon while making decisions that would have previously been unthinkable, like allying with Espenia and sharing jade with them. The question of what to do with jade is a fascinating one to me because there is really no right answer - share it with the world and tarnish what it means to Kekon or keep it in Kekon and lose out on the power that could be gained by doing otherwise, power that is necessary to keep ahead of the other clans and keep Kekon strong? And of course it is easy for a clan member to say that what is good for the clans is good for Kekon, but it’s becoming more and more clear that there are Kekonese who don’t feel that way at all. I also think the author has a great grasp on exploring the ideologies that the clan memoirs live by and the power these beliefs hold over them - family, greenness, vengeance, and tradition. Hilo’s story is the best at this in Jade War, I think - he orphans a child and doesn’t think twice about it because of what the parents’ dishonor means to him; he is terrified of a world where being a Green Bone means nothing because shine makes jade accessible to everyone. He clings to what it means to be a Green Bone, to traditional values and superiority and clan, because it HAS to mean something after everything he’s done for the sake of No Peak. Everything about this book was compulsively readable, from the fight scenes to the twists and scheming and plotting. I can’t help but root for No Peak against Mountain even though neither one has any moral high ground, which is such an interesting experience as a reader. You know that these are bad people doing bad things, but you see why they’re doing them and you’re totally sucked in and committed to finding out what happens next. My only significant complaint is one that I made with the first book too, and that is that I don’t feel any strong attachment to any of the characters - all of the characterization is very thoughtful and solid and I understand their decisions and psychology, but I’m more invested in where they’ll take the story than I am invested in them as individual characters. A tiny complaint is that there are a few moments of exposition that feel slightly clunky because Lee switches to the present tense to deliver them. Jade Legacy is coming out so soon and I legitimately can’t wait! I truly think this is one of the solidest and most unique series I’ve read in a long time. :)