OMG! I’m so doomed! WTH I just read!!!! SILENCE….  After I got frozen and motionless, my loved ones (or my haters took the control of my keyboard and wrote their impressions after I read this book. I left it without editing, changing, deleting or adding anything!) My sister in law:Wow! 2 hours, 53 minutes passed and she was still in the same position, sitting cross legged on the floor like a yogi who is about to start her meditation practice (I think she’s looking more like Bear Yogi) Look at her saliva dripping down on her chin! I should record a video and share on my instagram account! Let’s get a little closer! ARRRRGGGHH! Did she bite me?  My husband dearest:Look wife, Nil, I know you’re there, playing hide and seek with me but you’re so damn lazy to move your body! I forgive you nearly skipping our wedding ceremony to finish your latest Harry Potter book! I also forgive you wrote the murderers’ identities in the middle of my all Agatha Christie books! See how patient guy I am! I don’t need to forgive you for burning our dinners when you only focus on your reading! I’m actually thankful, because you’re the shittiest cook I’ve ever seen! If Gordon Ramsey would have accidentally noticed your cooking skills, he would have forced you to cut your hands! With the help of books, I’m saving my stomach being pumped over and over again. All ER crew call me by my name right now! But please, just get up! You’re sitting on the remote control and I cannot turn on the TV for watching the soccer game!!!! Besties Dolly and Ashley:She will live! I’ve seen the worst! Remember Dolly, she was bumping her head against the wall when she was reading Colleen Hoover novels because they’re so emotional!Yes and she tried to throw her kindle from the window and cried like a toddler at the end of last GOT episode! No, you’re confusing her attempt to throw the television into the trash and write a threatening letter to GOT writers.Okay, OMG she moved I can see her legs! Push Nily! Sorry get up Nily! Come on you can do it!AND I GOT UP and pour myself some CHARDONNAY when I’m making a list why I loved this book so much:-One of my favorite tactical books about the nature of fighting and defeating your enemy is Sun Tzu’s Art of War. And I caught too many references of it, in this book which made me fall in love with it! Actually I already fell in love with the first book but second installment was like more ripen, juicy, well-rounded, detailed and perfectly developed! The story is getting better. It was one of my favorite debut novels of 2018 and the new one is already guaranteed its place on my top ten fantasy list!-I spent my time gritted my teeth when I read Rin’s part at the first book. In this second installment she still got my nerves up but at least I saw some maturity, growing up pains and toughening up process which made me hopeful about the evaluation of the character!-Blood is spilled. Too many innocent people are massacred violently! I know this is not a sweet, soft reading but I felt like watching first 23 minutes opening scene of Saving Private Ryan over and over again! Yes, this book is a great test how far you survive with low pain tolerance. -There are so many questions and cliffhanger left for the other book! It’s brilliant sequel and I don’t know how my heart will survive with so much tension! I want to read more! It was long reading but not long enough for me!As a summary: Dark fantasy lovers, this series are getting so much better. I highly recommend this second book of this series! Okay I finished my list, it’s time to sip more Chardonnay and steal my husband’s take-outs!