Rating: 10/10Thanks to the publisher and author for an advance reading copy of The Shadow of the Gods (The Bloodsworn Saga #1) for review consideration. This did not influence my thoughts or opinions.The Shadow of the Gods is a masterclass in storytelling. It is epic, gritty fantasy with an uncompromising amount of heart. A near-perfect combination of Vikings and Cornwell’s The Last Kingdom, but with a fantastical flare that Gwynne executes flawlessly.I didn’t know a perfect book existed until I turned the last page. The wheels in my mind have been churning for hours, attempting to grind out the perfect words to completely voice my love for this novel. I really don’t believe the words exist and that is probably why I have been racking my brain, coming up with literally nothing.Like the synopsis states, the story follows three (3) distinct storylines: Orka (the huntress on a dangerous quest), Elvar (the noblewoman who has rejected privilege in pursuit of battle fame) & Varg (a thrall who seeks vengeance among the famed mercenaries known as the Bloodsworn). While we see all of the action through their eyes, there are several key characters you will become very familiar with as the tale progresses. My favorite, outside of our main protagonists, was Svik. He is definitely the comic relief for such a grim tale, and his story (around the halfway point) in which he bests a troll nearly killed me. But to be honest, there wasn’t one character written that I thought really needed more fleshing out. Each played their part in the exact manner required.The world-building goes without saying. If you’ve read the author’s first couple of series, The Faithful and the Fallen or Of Blood & Bone, you already know this aspect will be comprehensive and elaborate. While the former two (2) series took place in The Banished Lands, The Bloodsworn Trilogy takes place across Vigrid, the Battle-Plain. Gwynne calls it “a new world inspired by Beowulf, Ragnarok and Norse mythology” and that about sums it up. It is a land full of harsh terrain, warbands, monsters, gigantic bones of dead gods and more. Oh, and a massive dragon (though you probably already collected that from the brilliant cover by Marcus Whinney). There are also some aspects I’d LOVE to talk about, but trust me, you are better off finding them out for yourself.Look, if you have made it this far in my review and you still haven’t preordered yourself a copy, can you just trust me? If Vikings are your thing (and they probably are considering you read my review of a novel inspired by Norse mythology), then do the thing.