This book has been on my shelves for around five years and I have no idea what I was thinking not picking this up sooner.I read "Entwined" in a matter of hours and fell head over heels in love with it.This is a retelling of one of my favourite fairytales ever called "The Twelve Dancing Princesses". It's about twelve sisters who are forbidden from dancing so every night they sneak away to pursue their passion secretly. I remembered the bare bones of the story but was a bit murky on the details and ended up loving everything this book did with the story!Our main character is Azalea, the eldest of the sisters who acts essentially as a second mother figure since their actual mother passes away at the beginning of the book. After her death, their father essentially ignores the children and they decide to in turn ignore the rules of mourning that would forbid them from dancing. They find a hidden passage in the castle that leads them to a magical forest where every night they get to dance as much as their hearts desire. There's just one little catch: A mysterious man calling himself the Keeper also resides in that magical world and he seems intent on being true to his name...This story absolutely took my breath away. I loved the characters and the way the author managed to imbue all twelve sisters with individual personalities that flowed so well together. My favourite were Azalea, the King (their father), Lord Teddie and essentially every single one of the sisters.... wait I guess that makes almost the entire cast, but whatever.The main thing I adored about this book was the family dynamic. The sisters have such a tight-knit bond and Azalea is such a phenomenal older sister. The King takes some time to warm up to but the ending genuinely brought tears to me eyes because the love between them is so palpable and real. There's darker, heavier moments but also moments of light and laughter and wit that genuinely made me chuckle out loud.In my opinion is a perfectly written fairytale that gives you everything you want from this kind of story. I hope I can entice some of you to give this painfully underrated book a chance, because I'm pretty certain you will not be disappointed.