This book is… weird. Not good weird, mostly. I didn’t realize until halfway through that it was written by the author of Illusionarium – a fact which hit me upside the head the first time a rather horrific element was introduced, and I was like “Gah! That’s sort of disgusting/gross/horrific like Illusionarium when it gets disgusting/gross…” and lo and behold, there is a reason for that: the disturbed mind of Heather Dixon. So that is admittedly a matter of taste, but emphatically not a trait that I personally enjoy.Trying to be more objective about the book… it’s still weird in a bit of a bad way. First off, I find the setting bizarre and awkward. Dixon is trying to transpose a traditional fairy tale (with magic and a king with twelve daughters in a castle) into a world that’s got a parliament and railways and all sorts of slang that sometimes seems Regency or Victorian and other times seems Jazz Age… and people ride horses off to war where they fight with bayonets (no dirigibles)… and girls wear corsets and learn 30 types of curtsies and are fully likely to get married at 16 or 17. So while I’m on board with the theory that any writer can combine whatever disparate elements of histories and timelines she wants to create the fictional world in her fictional novel, I can’t help looking for some rules or structure or reason or sense to it. There is none here. It’s just a weird mix of stuff that never makes sense together, for me. The characters are also a bit flat for my taste. I don’t expect each of twelve princesses to be rendered in great detail, on top of a king and a villain and several suitors and assorted members of the court. But more than half of these princesses only have one attribute and not a single memorable line of dialogue. And they all love dancing more than anything else? Really? (With the possible exception of the poor fat one, who seems to love food more than anything else… but she also loves dancing.) As soon as you tell me twelve sisters all love dancing more than anything, you’ve told me this is a fairy tale, not a “real world.” So then turning around and trying to make it a real world is ridiculous. Meanwhile, you get about enough information about the male romantic lead to decide that you’d want to go on a second date with him (which, admittedly, you would), but that’s a far cry from the level of detail I expect about a main character or partner for a main character. And as far as the main girl (Azalea) goes… meh? I think she comes across well in the latter third of the book – once she knows who the villain is, knows what the stakes are, and chooses to fight, she is brave and resourceful and pretty impressive. But she spends the first two thirds of the book being rather boring. She is sad because her mom died (understandable); sad/mad at her father because he’s been cold, neglectful, and uncommunicative all of her life, but especially since his wife died (sure); she tries to be cheerful and nice but also responsible and in charge of her 11 younger sisters for all the obvious reasons (obviously); and she loves to dance (a lot). Also, she is inordinately obsessed with Mr. Bradford’s pocket watch. While I understanding feeling really guilty if you lose something that someone lends you, I also think someone who likes you enough to lend you something probably likes you enough to suggest that you not seriously jeopardize your life and/or eternal soul to retrieve it if you lose it. Azalea kind of (understatement) lacks perspective in a lot of cases, the thing with the watch being perhaps the most extreme example. Evaluating the book specifically as a twist on the fairy tale of the twelve dancing princesses, I think it’s underwhelming, and I think Dixon’s story would actually have benefited from being unfettered from the structure of a tale against which it mostly seemed to chafe all along. There’s no reason this couldn’t have worked as a story that wasn’t “based on” or flipped from anything, at all. Azalea could have been an only child with a cousin or a friend, or one of 2 or 4 sisters who could have been any ages. The enchanted realm didn’t actually need to be all dancing-centric. Beyond which, I think an essential element of the original story is that all of the girls are attached to something in the enchanted realm – whether it is just that they all have a prince with whom to dance in some of the classic renderings, or they have a variety of enticements that suit their ages and personalities in some of the more modern versions. Here, all that happens in the enchanted realm is that they dance…. with each other. At least, that’s all you ever hear about. The first time the girls go there, there are apparently a bunch of guests at a massive party, but you never heard about the girls meeting any of them or forming any attachments. Dixon would have been better off ditching any sense of obligation to the original fairy tale and letting the entire realm be an illusion crafted by the villain, perhaps; or, if the enchanted realm is “real,” then I think it’s basically necessary to account for at least one girl wanting to stay there permanently – and probably having the lead character be at least tempted or torn, as it seems obvious most people would be, what with the enchanted realm being a paradise beyond the most beautiful dream.Overall, I can’t say I recommend this book to anyone in particular. Even if you adored Illusionarium, I don’t think that’s an indication that you will love Entwined, because Entwined is nowhere near as bold and inventive. The best thing about Entwined is the slow thawing of the princess’ relationship with the father (or, his gradual warming which allows the thawing with them to happen), which has no real parallel in Illusionarium, where most of the relationships were either antagonistic or silly. (Lockwood falling in love was adorable, but not really profound.) Second to that, the climactic fight sequence in Entwined is certainly exciting – it goes on for quite a number of pages with several phases; but it’s nowhere near as major as the frequent and lengthy action sequences and chases in Illusionarium. If you pick up Entwined wanting Illusionarium II, you will be massively disappointed. But even if you just pick it up wanting a good fairy tale, you’ll probably be somewhat disappointed. I’d say try Uprooted by Naomi Novik or The Forbidden Wish by Jessica Khoury instead.