You guys might've figured this out already but I'm a complete sucker for fairytales/fairytale retellings . Entwined is exactly that. It's about 12 princesses who love to dance.The story starts off with the main character and eldest princess Azalea about to go to her first ball because she is finally of age. A tragic event occurs though causing the whole palace to go into mourning. During mourning the princesses are not allowed to go outside, wear colorful clothing, or dance. The princesses are devastated about not being able to dance, until they find a magic passage way in their room leading to a pavilion, where they dance every night. There they meet the Keeper, a dashing, young man dressed in all black. Keeper is beyond what I could've asked for as an antagonist and super seductive. For those of you who have already read Entwined you probably think I'm crazy. But what can say? Sadism, to a certain extent, is a turn on."A gentleman stood there, by the table. He was dressed in all black. Not boring black, but dashing black. One so smooth that stars would have gotten lost in it. He wore a costume of a long waistcoat and a sweeping cloak that brushed the edge of the marble. It complemented his face, a specter of high cheekbones with hints of long dimples. His midnight hair had been pulled back into a ponytail, and his eyes-even across the distance-blazed pure black. Azalea had never seen anyone so... beautiful.""Azalea paused, wondering how it would feel to be pressed up against Keeper, his long fingers cradling her head, his lips touching hers. If he kissed as well as he danced..."“Hush," he murmured. "There now. Hush." He traced his finger along her jaw. "That is a sweet thought," he whispered. "Except, my lady, I cannot die.” "And," said the Keeper, his eyes cold. "You are never to refuse me another dance again."Later on in the story the three eldest girls Azalea, Bramble, and Clover fall in love with three very different men. I found each one of their relationships heartwarming and fully entertaining. I also loved the fact that Dixon put in the time and effort to make each individual character so distinct. I could easily tell apart the 12 princesses throughout the story. The character development also made the story feel more realistic. What amazed me the most though was how Dixon was able to progressively improve the King and his daughters relationship. The flow was so smooth, it intertwined perfectly with the timeline.Lastly, the book is called Entwined because Dixon creates a fictional dance called the Entwine. The Entwine has the couple hold opposite ends of a sash. The man tries to capture his partner in a series of quick steps while the female tries to evade being caught in the sash. It's a romantic dance and key to the entire plot line of the story. If I had to make one complaint it would be that some of the dialogue felt out of place with the time period. Sometimes it would be too modern. But other than that 5 stars.