It took me over a week to reread this (thanks, college), but it was just like visiting an old friend.I love this book so much.Why I Love This Book:- It has one of the best casts of characters. YES INDEED. The sisters are so hilarious, adorable, and real--all of them are so different from each other! You have fly-off-the-handle Bramble with her flaming temper and mischief-making ways. (She's simultaneously the best/worst. I probably couldn't stand her in real life. XD) Sweet, gentle Clover, with her endearing stutter. (I just love stuttering characters; don't ask me why.) The oldest sister Azalea--the main character--with her hilariously awkward encounters with Lord Bradford, streak of impulsiveness, and motherly instinct towards her sisters. AND LORD BRAFORD. Be still my heart! He is...quite honestly one of my favorite characters ever. o.o He's so quiet and kind and sweet AND HE'S MY FAVORITE. I would marry him. *coughs*- The humor. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh. This book is funny! Heather Dixon has such a unique sense of humor, and it's always "clicked" with me. Doesn't feel forced or unnatural at all. AND IT'S JUST THE BEST. The sisters are constantly creating chaos/awkwardness/annoyances, and that makes the story very lively. Since I love the humor, so much, I can't pass on sharing some quotes."You look pretty, as always," he said.Azalea grinned, deciding not to remind him that the last times he has seen her, she had been soaked, frozen, unconscious, and a torn mess of the undead. Mr. Pudding was their Royal Steward. He was also the Royal Stableman, the Royal Boot-Blacker, and the Royal Things-on-the-High-Shelf-Getter."He's around the twist," said Azalea. "Breaking all the windows? He's mad.""Ah, no," said the King. "It's only madness if you actually do it. If you want to break all the windows in the house and drown yourself in a bucket but don't actually do it, well, that's love."-The setting. It's full of magic and balls and old castles and alllllll the fairytale things. It's just lovely.- LORD BRADFORD THOUGH. Ahem. - The family elements. This is arguably one of my favorite parts of this book. It's got wonderful family dynamics, and their family just feels so real. Not perfect, by any means. But exactly how I picture real families.- The romance. Yesyesyes. All the romance(s) in this book are superb! It's very light and adorable, and I maaaaaay be a little obsessed with One Couple in Particular. *grins*- EVERYTHING. I can't think of a thing I disliked about this book! It's one of my all-time favorites. <3CONTENT: This is a very clean book. No cursing or excessive romance. One (no-good) character attempts to force a kiss, and there are a few brief kisses that are not forced or described much. The magic might be too creepy or weird for some people, as well. I would probably steer clear of this is if you aren't a fan of magic in general.5 stars!