I realize that this book doesn't come out for quite a while, but as soon as it downloaded on my Kindle, I started reading it right away, and once I'd finished it, there was no holding back the feels.This book is amazering.It's half:And another half:And considering Beauty and the Beast is one of my favorite Disney movies/fairy tales and the Cupid and Psyche myth is probably my favorite in the entire Greek mythology canon...This book has some of the coolest worldbuilding I've seen in a YA novel. Originally, I thought the book was going to be high fantasy, but now I'm not so sure. It almost feels like "low," or "second world" fantasy, as the setting is a world that was settled by the Greeks and then cut off from the rest of the world. For that reason, the people believe in Greek gods, and the demons that the blurb refers to are supposed to have originated in Tartarus.The mythology spin on the story was a total surprise, as the blurb doesn't mention it, and I found myself even more excited in the first couple chapters because of it. I also saw an interview with Rosamund Hodge on Epic Reads, where she said that her story is based just as much on the Cupid and Psyche myth as it is on Beauty and the Beast (if not more), so I'm not sure why the myth bit isn't in the blurb. It should be, IMHO.Okay, so let's talk about characters. Holy shiz. These characters are so crazy and dark and totally different than most other YA protagonists. Nyx is what I wanted Rose Hathaway from Vampire Academy to be - BA and mean, with an iron will, but so broken that you couldn't help but love her. I loved how her family relationships pushed her into her feelings for Ignifex. Her character motivation and development flowed really well, I thought.Ignifex is also pretty amazing. He reminded me of all those Victorian anti-heroes that are more wicked than good, like Heathcliff. Or maybe like the selfish gods of mythology that have to learn compassion. Either way, I enjoyed his development a lot too, and although I figured out early on the big twist about his identity, just like with Cinder by Marissa Meyer, I didn't care.I was totally absorbed in this book. I couldn't put it down. Basically, this was me and Cruel Beauty:And when people tried to talk to me:Okay, and the end.THE END!!!*shakes computer*Loved it, loved it!I won't say anything else.Just know.It's amazing.I know it's terribly CRUEL of me (see what I did there?) to tell you all these lovely things about this book when it doesn't release until January. I'm very sorry. But go ahead and add it to your Goodreads TBR list now, because YOU NEED THIS BOOK IN YOUR LIFE! It's dark and twisted and original and wonderful. There's fabulous worldbuilding, seriously messed up characters that Rosamund Hodge makes you love, and some really vivid imagery that I didn't talk about before but is also really great.GO BUY THIS BOOK!...IN JANUARY!