3.5"Why wasn’t my hatred simple anymore?"I'm going to start this review doing a thing I usually find useless and infuriating, but which I am nonetheless sure every reader does, at least from time to time: a comparison. And a random enough comparison at that.Not that many days ago I finished another ya novel that all of you probably know, and that is Angelfall by Susan Ee. You see, I thought I needed to mention it because of this curious question that popped up in my mind as soon as I turned the last page of Cruel Beauty: if I feel that I enjoyed this book as much as I enjoyed Angelfall, why then did I rate that one four stars without a second thought, while I just can't bring myself to do the same with this?This review is the answer to that question.•Nyx Triskelion and I are not right for each other, this much is apparent. I saw many similarities between her and Penryn (protagonist of Angelfall), which is probably part of the reason why I fel the comparison was necessary; anyway, many were the differences as well. Both heroines are flawed and know it, but while Penryn fights along with her faults making strengths out of them, Nyx's attitude is more ambiguous and, I believe, hypocritical. She never denies having, as she dutifully remind us every now and then, "poison in her heart", but she fluctuates between thinking of herself as the most despicable person on Earth and easily rolling with it, even relishing it. It basically depends on her mood of the moment. I personally prefer the latter case, which is a pity since we see more of the former. Nyx is so volatile that she can convincingly assert she in love with Ignifex and be firm in her purpose to kill him, which she can express with determination and willingness one minute and with nothing but frustrated reluctance the next. She does not seem torn: she seems bipolar. The fact that she simultaneously falls in love with two men (I don't give a hoot they are in fact the same person: for the whole book they were separate entities and that's it) does not help me getting rid of the impression, actually it reinforces it: she does not know what she wants, she's indecisive, flighty, erratic, and she remains so for the whole story, never growing up and never deciding until she had but a path to take, so it's not as if she finally did take a real decision. In brief: Penryn knew she was acting selfishly and kept doing so in spite of everything, and I loved it; Nyx knew she was a tool in The Greater Good hands and resented it profoundly, and never, not even once, she thought she could find another way, resulting in her (and us) never understanding which side she was on. And I hated it.•The romance: well, as I said, there is a love triangle seasoned with more than a pinch of insta-love, so it goes without saying that it was kind of doomed from the start. Besides, while it is perfectly clear that calling "insta-love" what Nyx has with Shade is being overly generous, I hoped that her relationship with Ignifex would make up for that at least a little. In fact, more than a month passes before Nyx develops actual feelings, but, since their interactions are very limited both in duration and in variety, it feels like insta-love all the same. This is serious. Seriously bad. I didn't feel like shipping them but faintly. •The house, for which I demand a standing ovation: it is a house of horrors and wonders, a house that changes and has secrets to hide, and, as a setting, it confers on the story such a wonderful air of mystery that the reader cannot help soaking up and being bewitched by. And speaking of the house, the matrioska thing: all the stars. It blew my mind away. Like, it was there and then it wasn't. Generally speaking, I liked very much both the world-building and the ending, which has an unusual rhythm and hit the mark, at least for me, precisely for this reason. ➽ Don't take me wrong: the novel is highly, highly enjoyable, and although many readers lamented its slowness, I actually didn't perceive it and devoured book in a little less than a day. The most difficult feat was to bear with the protagonist, but the setting is so enticing that Nyx won't bother you too much. If you are interested in a new take on The Beauty and the Beast and romance is your thing, you should give it a chance.