💀 DNF at 76% First of all, please allow me to apologize for giving this DNF such a high rating. I know many of you Little Barnacles are profoundly disappointed that I should sink so low as to give 3 scandalously generous stars to a book I didn't even finish. I am afraid this is my own fault for accustoming you to much higher DNFing standards, and you are quite justified in feeling horribly betrayed by my most shameful behavior. Now please allow me to repent and stuff. Be right back. 



 My soul is now at peace, we can therefore proceed.It seems this poor fascinating little book suffered from a remarkably regrettable conjunction of circumstances:① I didn't reread the blurb before embarking upon this most enthralling adventure.Blood Song had been hiding in the unfathomable depths of my to-read shelf for four years decades when I finally picked it up, you see. Trusting my unfailing, exceptionally superior judgement, I didn't find it necessary to refresh my eternally failing memory about the wonderfully enticing premise before starting the book. And dived in pincersfirst. Admittedly, this wasn't my brightest move. I mean, all my moves are obviously bright as a rule, but some of them are, um, you know, not so bright and stuff. Anyway, had I bothered to bloody shrimping reread the blurb, I would have realized this was naught but *shudders pre-emptively* a coming of age story *starts convulsing a little bit* ← as you might have guessed, Bloody Shrimping Coming of Age Stories (BSCoAS™) are not exactly my thing. Because disgustingly young characters and stuff. ② Last night a ♫ DJ saved my life ♫ narrator killed a book.  Granted, I don't have huge experience when it comes to audio books, but I'm not completely clueless (sometimes) and can more or less tell when a narrator has suicide-inducing potential *cheerfully waves at Mr Perdido Street Station*. Such is quite unfortunately the unfortunate case here. Then again, this shouldn't have come as a complete surprise to me. Why, you ask? Because I have it on good authority that The Narrator Who Shall Not Be Named Because I'm Too Lazy to Look His Name Up Charitable Like That (TNWSNBNBITLtLHNUCLT™) followed a How to Tell a Story in the Most Wonderfully Tedious Deliciously Tiresome and Beautifully Monotonous Way Possible Class (HtTaSitMWTDTaBMWPC™) at Utter Boredom University, Lackluster City (UBULC™). I really should have seen this coming from miles and miles away. Shame on me again and stuff.Anyway, I just did some research, and it seems the narrator took extra credits while he was studying at UBULC™: one was a How to Give All the Characters in the Story the Exact Same Dull Voice Consequently Confusing the Fish Out of the Poor Listener While Simultaneously Ensuring Your Narration is the Most Soporific Ever Yay Class (HtGAtCinStESDVCCtFOofPLWSEYNisMSEYC™). The other was a Make Sure You Shout Some Lines Once in a While (Preferably in a Completely Different, Unexpected Voice) So as to Wake the Listener Up from the Sweet Slumber You Had Previously Lulled Her/Him/Whatever Into Muahahaha and Stuff Class (MSYSSLOiaWPiaCDUVSatWtLUftSSYHPLHHWIMaSC™). And let me tell you, you realize just how much work the narrator put into earning those deadly extra credits when you listen to this book here. Needless to say, the dear man graduated from UBULC™ summa cum laude and stuff.③ The unexpectedly unexpected interruption.I might have perhaps maybe have been partially at fault in the present semi-half-debacle (a little), but this most lamentable accidental disruption in my wonderful listening experience was really quite fortuitous on my part. Because exoskeleton-related mechanical problems and stuff. Anyway, I had to reluctantly abandon this poor little narrative all by its little self for ten ridiculous days. Acoustic death ensued promptly upon my return. Worry not, for the book didn't suffer in the process. Not as much as I did listening to it, anyway. But I digress. So, here I was, armed with a brand new exoskeleton, ready to hit the play button again. And I did. And this happened:First of all, I couldn't shrimping remember what the stinking fish this book was about (which should tell you how fantastically gripping the story is and how incredibly involved I was in it). Second of all, I couldn't shrimping remember what the stinking fish this book was about. And third of all, 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤 💤. And also, 💤 💤 💤.I rest in my case and stuff.➽ And the moral of this No this Book Isn't Abysmally Bad I Just Shouldn't Have Come Near A Ten Hundred Thousand Mile Radius of It That Is All Crappy Non Review (NtBIABIJSHCNaThTMRoITiA™) is: hey, this could have been a lot worse, I could have read the book, instead of listening to it. [Pre-review nonsense]The fact that I didn't exactly really made it to the end of this book is absolutely NOT my fault. Not it's not. This is a conspiracy. Yes it is. The author colluded with the narrator to ensure this book would become the perfect cure for insomnia. And guess what? They succeeded. And how.Oh yeah, these guys are GOOD.➽ Full This Story Was So Delightfully Entertaining and Extraordinarily Memorable and Stuff That I Couldn't Remember What the Fish It Was About Only Two Weeks After Putting it Down Crappy Non Review (TSWSDEaEMaStICRWtFIWAOTWAPiDCNR™) to come. Maybe. If I ever awaken from the sweet slumber I fell into while I was reading the book, that is.