This is, without a doubt, my favourite book of the year so far. This is High Fantasy that is contemporary while still hitting a sweet spot for me with the mix of magic and battle.The story was engaging, the plot was well paced, the protagonist was flawed but likeable, the prose was polished. I can't believe this a debut novel. I don't place too much faith in goodreads rating system, but when we are approaching 15000 ratings with an average of 4.56 as of today - that says something about the quality of this book.
“I’ll fight but I won’t murder. His boyhood resolve coming back to him, the promise he had made to himself after saving them in the wild. I’ll kill men who face me in battle but I won’t take the sword to innocents. It felt so hollow now, so naïve.” 
Many before me have commented on how this book has some striking, (though arguably superficial), similarities to The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss (review) - so I think I can best talk about this book by contrasting the two. If you haven't read The Name of the Wind don't fret - even having read that book I couldn't tell you what it was about in less than three days anyway.
Similarities
1. Both stories written from a single POV.2. Both stories employ a framing device whereby a Chronicler writes down the life story as recounted to them by the hero.3. Both stories are about the coming of age and rise to badassdom of a legend.
Differences
1. Kvothe's story in NotW is told in the first person while Vaelin's story (our protagonist) is told in the third person2. In Blood Song the framing device is done setting up in the Prologue and we are straight into the main story in Chapter one. In The Name of the Wind, the Chronicler takes a veeeery long time to even show up to begin Kvothe's story.3. In Blood Song, it seems clear that the framing device will end with this book as the events catch up to Vaelin's time with the Chronicler - while in The Name of the Wind the framing device continues into book two and seems will continue into book 3.4. This book, Vaelin arrives at the religious order where he begins his warrior/martial training by Chapter One. Kvothe arrives at the university to learn magic after a loooong looong time.5. Kvothe in The Name of the Wind is/becomes the best at most everything he puts his hand to. This book, Vaelin becomes the best swordsman in the order. He is not the best at other things
“Vaelin knew himself to be the best swordsman among them. Dentos was master of the bow, Barkus unarmed combat, Nortah the finest rider and Caenis knew the wild like a wolf, but the sword was his.”
 As I said, the similarities are superficial, making the differences more obvious. The other difference is that The Name of the Wind is to my mind superior storytelling as compared to Blood Song which I feel is a better story. The Name of the Wind has superior immersion, as compared to Blood Song which has an actual plot and a perfectly paced one for my liking.So which of the two books do I prefer? For me The Name of the Wind still edges this one out because I could sit and listen to that all day long and when I'm finished I could start over right away - while with this book, though the story is better, and I'm going straight onto the second book in the series, now I've read and know the story, I don't feel a pressing need to read it again - that will undoubtedly change when the final book comes out.For those who were unimpressed with The Name of the Wind, for those who despised the all too perfect Kvothe, Blood Song is most definitely the book for you. This book is everything you wished NotW to be but wasn't. All the complaints you made about Kvothe are addressed in Vaelin. Kvothe is a Clayton's Vaelin - or rather, Vaelin is a better Kvothe.The audio narration by Steven Brand was very good, though his quiet spoken voice was difficult to hear if there was any background noise.I loved this story from start to finish and was loathe to hit the pause button on the Audible app when inconvenient interruptions arose - like sleep and going to the toilet. This one gets an easy...5 stars