“The song is me, my blood, my need, my hunt.”A special school for wizards assassins. Haven't had those for a while. If done well (and it can be done badly), it is one of the safest tropes in fantasy. It usually combines a coming of age story with the brothers-in-wands arms ambiance and a quest for saving the world. And indeed the Blood Song seeped into my veins with this heady mixture of ingredients like the best of drugs. I read it with an increasing exhilaration and overwhelming sensation of being overindulged with all the fantasy guilty pleasures. But with the last page, when the drug wore off, I was left with the lingering side effects. A young boy, Vaelin al Sorna is given away by his own father to the Sixth Order, a place of lessons in death and an austere life of a defender of the Faith and Realm. His life is blood, sweat and tears but then his blood starts to sing and since the Faith is tied very closely with the Realm and the Crown, as Vaelin grows in his vocation as a warrior and therefore a practitioner of death in its many forms, he is also caught in the of current of power flowing through the fiefs of the Unified Realm. We learn the story of Vaelin’s life as he narrates it to one Lord Verniers Alishe Someren, a historian of a nation for whom al Sorna is the ultimate villain – although as we read, we realise that sometimes the chronicler learns the true version and sometimes Vaelin omits crucial details that are somehow known only to the reader. In this regard Terence makes an interesting point how this format sucks the mystery and curiosity out of things when we know that somewhere in the future the main character is fine and doing well enough they can recount their massive tale in some fashion (right, Kvothe?).I could raise some points about the writing (or editing, especially when it comes to interpunction – this made my blood boil a couple of times) but overall the setting, characterisation of the protagonists and the dialogues are done superbly. The whole host of aspects, brothers and sisters in the Faith, the nobles, the soldiers, the people both from highest and lowest echelons of the society, connections and interactions between them, that was a sheer pleasure to read. The camaraderie is great. I am positively in love with Nortah He's been my favourite brother, even more likable and tragic than Vaelin. His issues go far beyond the very mundane “daddy didn't love me” trope. How hard it must have been for him to be sent away from home to dwell among people he has no reason to love or respect, only to lose his father to political machinations. but Dentos and his many uncles, steadfast Barkus and pensive Caenis also won me over. There is also a romantic plot but it doesn’t dominate the design. The King (”it takes more than goodness to make a king”) is wonderfully Machiavellian while princess Lyrna (my favourite female protagonist) is as cold and untrustworthy as her father but also intuitive, beautiful and intelligent (”My only weapons are my wits, my face and the promise of power that lies in my womb.”) even though her sire is not entirely happy with this state of affairs (“What a burden to have an intelligent daughter. It goes against nature for wit to be bound in so much beauty.”).Conversations in this book are smart and double-edged, their edges sharp and honed as the best swords and equally dangerous. Verbal feints and parries are as excellent as those described during martial battles. At this point you are probably wondering wherein lies the problem with this novel. The problem is two-fold; it concerns worldbuilding and the character development. Obviously, religion is a huge factor in this world and it upsets me how little I know about it, even though it seems to be central to the whole socio-political system. This is one thing lamely done. It wouldn't have possibly bothered me had I not read the Paladin of Souls right before this novel. Mind you, Bujold “didn't get a Hugo for nothing”. Her world, world of the five gods, is also decisively religious with several aspects of life dictated by theology and the political intrigue determined along the sectarian lines and clashes. But there everything is explained: who believes in what and why it is the case. In what way the Quintarian religion differs from the Quadrene doctrine and why. What are the theological transgressions and their ramifications. Mr Ryan, to the contrary, presents a land where faith is crucial but never bothers to go into details. Honestly, the whole spiritual landscape can be summed up with a one-liner! I have only the vaguest notion of the precepts of the Faith, a somewhat more detailed picture of the clerical order (but not really), almost no history and no idea what is the sectarian strife all about. We are expected to take everything in blind faith (pun intended). All right, we know there are the Deniers, but what do they deny exactly and why? We know some people belong to “some minor sect” (which implies there are many), “possibly Ascendant, whatever that is” but we were never told what kind of creed it is and why is it blasphemous. We know that in one of the fiefs the religion is slightly different and allowed for quiet practice but not for proselytism but the differences are not explained properly, rather scattered in crumbs along the way that you need to piece together (the sloppy worldbuilding forced me to check the Raven’s Shadow Wiki more than once e.g. to sort out the orders and double-check other details). If you add to all of this the fact that the main protagonist is supposed to be a devout religious figure, the whole thing transforms into a grotesque. While Vaelin learns to fight and kill during his years in the order, his religious education seems to be terribly neglected. In fact, it is mentioned only once and in quite an ornamental fashion. Similar arguments have been raised against the Red Sister (although the ever wise Athena will explain this much better ) and I had a displeasure to experience similar issues when reading Grave Mercy.This is an appalling lack of worldbuilding and I cannot stop myself from poking into the holes. I have written it before: When you write a fantasy about the fey you research them so that you do not mistake the fey with the elves. You write about wizard wars, you develop your magic system with a painstaking detail. You go for the Arabian night styled story, again you do your research. Religion? Do your theology homework. Otherwise, the book does not make sense. It’s like somebody tried to write about the Thirty Years' War without bothering to explain what is so bloody different between the Catholics and the Protestants that makes them kill each other for it (on the side note: read The Myth of Religious Violence: Secular Ideology and the Roots of Modern Conflict if you want to know). This is all connected with how effortlessly Vaelin carries on his own greatness and legend. For many pages, I have been resisting the garystuness conclusion because, especially at the beginning, the Author at least attempts to show that the boy is not a Sèvres model of perfection (to explain, you might not know that in the modest city of Sèvres the International Bureau of Weights and Measures is located, and it is where they keep the ideal model of the kilogram and the meter) e.g. by making him average in some disciplines or by showing how fake his legend is. Unfortunately, the end of the book left me with my internal special snowflake detector howling with rage and disappointment. Particularly that sometimes Vaelin sounds like a coaching guru (“an axe without a blade is just a stick”) and shines with the unexacting ability to dwarf everyone around him in all things. Additionally, there is the factor of doubts or crises embedded in the internal tensions every good character should experience (or rather lack of thereof in this case). I guess we were all waiting for the “I'm not your sister moment”, but aside of all other things, this one I found the most implausible. A young, healthy male cannot be living like a mediaeval hermit monk (and even they were tempted if you read the accounts of The Desert Fathers!), without even a shred of doubt or breaking the tiniest sweat of internal wrestling unless they are a religious fanatic. But how can Vaelin be a religious fanatic when he devoted his whole life to killing religious fanatics who, in this book, are always a combination of pathology, evil and madness. Interesting no? And yet, this very simple reasoning does not have place in the novel nor are its ramifications considered. There are no spiritual struggles, two single moments of reflection whether or not Vaelin is a murderer, no reckoning with the past even though the initial “daddy issues” prove to be unfounded and since the father dies I reckon this chapter is closed and an unwavering trust which I find inexplicable.With such feeble foundations, the ending was, unfortunately, the weakest part of the book. I have questions, more questions and seemingly, no answers: are all the dead souls bad? if not all are bad then do all have to fall prey to this evil entity? if the evil entity can take everyone with near-death experience, then why bother with the poor brother Barkus? why is he supposed to be the One not any other person? why did the evil entity try to kill Vaelin even when he was so young and untrained? why didn't Barkus do it later especially that their years spent in the state on near constant warfare must have given him plenty of opportunities? why is the evil One main aim to destroy the order (I understand it has been said that without the Order the Faith and the Realm will fall, but you need to admit that both the religion and the state must be particularly weak if that is the case; also the reason why the evil should aim at the least spiritual of the orders baffles me) and the whole silly prophecy business . I could go on longer.Perhaps all my questions will be answered in the Tower Lord (I have been promised they will), however at this point I am not left with a feeling “OK, let us wait what transpires”, but with an “it doesn't add up” one. I like books that are written for intelligent readers, not for the patient ones (although it is not mutually exclusive of course). However, as I finished the Garden of the Moons, I keep finding that my expectations have been elevated to altogether different level. Nobody can say that GotM was nothing else but a dense teaser. And yet, even though I finished the last page of the Malazan opening starved for answers, it was not with the same impression of something wanting as it was in this case. And this surely affects my rating. Is the book good? Yes. Is it great? Not really. Solid but not sound. Should you read it? Absolutely. Will you like it? Blood will tell. Or sing.Also in the series: 2. Tower Lord ★★☆☆☆3. Queen of Fire ★☆☆☆☆