“Love is an enchantress—devious and wild. It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.” ― Shea Ernshaw, The Wicked DeepWow.The Wicked Deep has made it into my list of all time favorites. This is a book that is beguiling and eerie and just as haunting as its title and cover.And Before I say anything else..the cover art for this book is exquisite. The Wicked Deep, which I finished a short time ago, was quite a read. It left me a bit in awe of this writer's talent as well as shaken up at the pure beauty of the writing.This is what they mean when they say "poetry of words". The writing here is..well I do not even know how to describe it. It enamored me much as the Swan sisters enamored the men of Sparrow I suppose.It is hard for me to label this book. It does not fit a certain genre. There is Mystery and folklore and History and supernatural and romance and Sirens and the sea. But at the end of the way, it is just a beautifully written deeply evocative book that you just get lost in.So for a little backstory: Sparrow is an island in Oregon. An island that lives with a terrible torment.In the year of 1822, the people of Sparrow murdered three of its residents. They were the beguiling Swan sisters, newcomers to the island. Beautiful, free spirited and happy, they enchanted everyone they met. Men adored them, women looked at them with suspicion. Until one day, they were branded as witches and drowned in the sea.From that moment, a curse upon the town was started. The sisters would come back for several weeks every year starting in 1823. They would come back and for a short time become human again by each sister stealing a human body of one of the young girls of Sparrow temporarily. Then they would each lure a young man of Sparrow out to open sea with them ,where he would drown. This is the revenge the sisters extract for their fate so many years before and this is what the town, bathed in sorrow and tragedy has come to accept. Until two young people, Penny and Bo, decide to change things. I loved this book. And I really do not want to say anything else even with spoilers. Sometimes, when recommending a book, I'll say "for mystery lovers" or for "Historical fiction lovers" but in this case I think this book is for people who love reading fiction where the sea is Omnipresent and becomes a character in the book.I am not going to talk much about the end even with spoilers. While I did not love everything in the book..it deserves five stars for all the reasons mentioned plus it was so good I read it in couple of hours. This is one that is beguiling(that word again..but it fits so well), as well as deeply satisfying and moving and a novel that I could not put down. Read it yourself and be prepared to be swept into the world of Sparrow Oregon. Highly recommended.