How can I even begin to describe my love for this book and the whole series? This book is about The King of the Enchanted Forest, Mendanbar, who hates princesses. When he's out for a walk he runs into a burnt a magic-stripped section of the Enchanted Forest. Worried that it might be dragons burning down his forest he goes to visit the King of the Dragons, Kazul. To his dismay he discovers that she has a princess. Princess Cimorene to be exact. But Kazul is missing. Together Mendanbar and Cimorene set out on a quest to try and find her.This book is full of dozens of mentions of fairytales. Mostly fairytales that have been turned on their heads. Such as all the boys who show up "every three months, regular as clockwork" at the giant's castle and "they're always named Jack". Or the dwarf who spins gold into straw but can never get anyone to guess his name so he always has to keep their children even though he doesn't want them. He even legally changed his name so it would be easier for people to guess it.The king's and princess's adventure is full of danger, surprises and hilarity. This book also introduces some of my favorite characters from the series. Such as a technical magician and a grouchy gargoyle. The characters from this book are memorable and usually bring a new twist on a well loved fairytale. I first discovered this book when I was 11. I had already read and loved the first book in the series. And then not having found this book I picked up the fourth book. Needless to say, when I found out that there were two more books in between the two that I had read, I was overcome with joy. I got this book on hold on the at my library. And I loved it. I wasn't disappointed at all. This book fits perfectly into the rest of the series. Since the first time I found this book I loved it. Since then I have read this book at least 20 times. And I will continue to read it (along with the rest of the books in the series) every year. When I was 12 I made a deal with my brother that if he read some of my books that I would read some of his. He read the whole series and afterwards he told me that this was he favorite one. The writing sucks me in every time. It is a quick read. But it's worth it. I would recommend this book to people who love and know fairytales. This book got, gets, and will continue to get 5/5 stars from me.Side Notes: This is my third favorite book from The Enchanted Forest Chronicles.This book wasn't written second. It was written (along with books 1 and 3) as a prequel to book 4, Talking to Dragons.This book is written in 3rd person but through Mendanbar's eyes. The only thoughts you see in the book are Mendanbars's and you only see what he sees. But it still refers to Mendanbar as "he". Having this book from his perspective is something that I love about this book. This way you can see his reactions to Cimorene and the way he changes towards her. It's very cute.