[Sappho’s voice] Sweet mother, I cannot weave, slender Aphrodite has overcome me with longing for a secret warrior-assassin-goddess and her rebel girlfriend...Holy shit, this book. What a thorny and twisted tale of morality, anguish, and trauma. And lesbianism! Ngan takes elements of Asian mythology and her own rich imagination and infuses them into a beautifully rendered fantastical collage that has representation in sorely needed ways. Also, did I mention the sheer amount of sapphic content in this book? We won with this one. That said, there are many others aspects of the book that I want to dwell on a bit because I think they demand deeper examination. Namely, the powerful themes of finding self-empowerment against the horrors of classism, homophobia, and the objectification of women.In this book, Ngan delicately carves out all the subtlest ways in which the politics of power use rape as a tool. She throws the door wide open on how rapists are abetted by cultures in which women are viewed as the table scraps of men, where women's bodies are intensely politicized, where social hierarchies outrageously privilege certain members because they’re considered untouchable, and where there's always a presumption of male authority and entitlement.Ikhara is a society where misogynist sadists flourish because misogyny is justified as tradition, maleness comes with a presumption of violence and women are perceived as public property. I appreciate how the novel invites the reader to consider rape not only through the lens of desire, depravity and shame but as a violence that is born out of power . In Girls of Paper and Fire, the Moon king uses fear as his medium and his position of power as an enabler to carry out various acts of violence against women, not because of any urges of sexual desire, but because wrenching these girls from their homes and raping them makes him feel power over them and over their castes. The novel, heartbreakingly, demonstrates how this diseased tradition of Paper Girls has generated decades of women hurtling headlong into a violent kind of silence, because their rapists are handed license to operate and keep them quiet, ashamed and without justice. Throughout the novel, it was gratifying to read about these women learning from and teaching each other all the shades and colors of resilience and power. Their greatest feat of strength is the one they performed every day: continuing to live for the sake of themselves and their families when the world tried to convince them that it would be so much easier to stop, and it is that spirit of hope and defiance that will ultimately see them through their pain. At the heart of the novel is a focus on recovering from trauma, reclaiming one's body in the aftermath of unspeakable violence, and forging a powerful self out of the wreckage. You are not the worst thing that happened to you, insists Girls of Paper and Fire, you are whole and endlessly worthy of love. That's the message that lingers long after the novel ends, and I'm grateful for it.“When the world denies you choices, you make your own.”A highly, highly recommended read!