AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA FUCK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! okay so when you read this book like a romance set against a fantastical backdrop, it is so much fun. so enthralling and so unexpected and so tender. a love story through and through. it gives what the original grishaverse trilogy cannot. it gives what the grishaverse trilogy WILL not: a male love interest with depth, deep flaws, and an unwavering love for the fmc that makes narrative sense and feels wholly earned. it's the idea of a girl chosen by the world at large (by chance), a girl who is forced to trudge through learning and harnessing a power she had no idea lived inside of her, and one whose body and autonomy is violated in service of imperial conquest that feels most similar to grishaverse, i think. but where grishaverse provides half-baked romance with one-dimensional men driven by unconvincing subplots and boring, uninspired backstories, amun of empire of sand is a male love interest with years-long trauma that never serves to weaken or "taint" him. he's tortured, violated, and enslaved, he's allowed emotional vulnerability, and he cares for and protects mehr like his life depends on it. he does this without ever venturing into tropey fantasy territory. perhaps because he is written with the same delicate hand that mehr is—perhaps because this trauma is shared, unpacked, and understood by both parties—he is a rare male fantasy love interest that felt like a roaring success. his cold, aloof exterior is a protective barrier against a religious group that has been actively oppressing him for years. he isn't cruel for cruelty's sake. he isn't senseless in his coldness. and when he unexpectedly meets a girl just like him in the viper's nest, this cold exterior begins to crack, and the tender boy beneath emerges. so, so, so rewarding, to read about a gentle, touch-starved giant like amun, who carries flaws and tragedy and also deep potential for care and healing. LOVE him. 10/10 mmc. tasha suri, you're fr crazy for what you've done here.............now how will you rescramble my brain chemistry with a sapphic couple?the world building in empire of sand is convincing enough to sustain a slow-moving narrative about two people coming together to overthrow an empire. the female characters feel full and complex. the romance is gradual and fleshed out. loved this. gotta be one of my favorite fantasy romances (though i am very sad to learn that the sequel does not follow my couple of choice 😔🫣😫💔).