I should have known something was up when Empire of Sand remained at a stunningly low price of $2.99 for the kindle edition shortly after its release. I choked it up to ‘unknown author syndrome’ and decided to press my luck, avoiding a digital copy for a paperback in hopes that it and its subsequent sequels would find a loving home on my bookshelves for years to come. Yeah…not so much. Empire of Sand instead suffers from what I like to call ‘PWP – Plot? What Plot?’ Although on its surface exists a fascinating world based in the up and coming category of Middle Eastern Fantasy, (a category I’m heads over heels for if done right) beneath its crust is nothing more than the constantly shifting sands from which it came. In other words – it’s spiritless, vacuous, and just plain confusing. Let’s start at primary plot and go from there; Suri introduces us to the classic fantasy convention of One World – Two peoples, separated by culture. At the one end of the field we have the Ambhan – in classic elite style; they have finer features, are lighter in color, and are the current ruling class in our society. In the challenger’s corner we have the Amrithi – born from the descendants of Daiva, they exist on the outskirts of society due to their ability to commune with the Daiva and gods through ritual rites. Insert our heroine – Mehr, born of an Ambhan governor and an Amrithi mother, she is torn between two worlds and fully accepted by none. There is an Emperor backed by Ambhan dominion, and a spiritual immortal by the name of Maha. There is a forward push to rid the world of the Amrithi and their abilities because of their unusual relationship with Daiva. There’s your plot - typical but solid, and truthfully; I’m not upset by its lack of originality. What I’m upset by is the fact that the information that I’ve provided above is just about all we learn about this world and its dichotomous cultures. There is simply no world building to speak of to support the plot and thus the further I read, the more bored and confused I became. My problem begins and ends with Why. I have so many questions and by the finale I found none of them answered and the shoddy cleanup job only served to annoy the living daylights of out me, but unlike Suri, I will endeavor to answer WHY this is so. Empire of Sand has no world at all. As far as I can tell there is the town Mehr grew up in, Jah Irinah, and then there is the desert. The Maha lives in the desert and the Emperor lives… no idea. I have absolutely no idea. I don’t know where his seat of power is, I don’t know about his court, I don’t know about his relationship with his people, and most of all I know absolutely nothing about the actual Empire. This is important because the state of the Empire is the basis for the entire plot. Without going into too much detail, The Maha – the mysterious still living first Emperor, has kept himself alive using the gifts of the Amrithi to bind the dreams of the Daiva to his will, keeping himself immortal and thus the Empire superior. Well why do I care about the state of the Empire if I know nothing about the Empire? What is it superior to? Does it war with other countries? Do other countries even exist? No Idea. In turn I have no idea how the dreams of the Daiva keep the Empire superior when they are only explained in terms of keeping the Maha alive. And from here the plot continues to succumb to further vagueness. The Maha binds Amrithi to him to perform his immortal rites. We know Amun – another Amrithi and Mehr’s future love interest, is bound to the Maha. How? He has blue swirls on his body and suffers pain when refusing an order. Okay got it, thanks Suri, but HOW was he bound? How does the Maha actually bind people? Does the Maha have actual magic? By the same token, the binding is often described in terms of vows. An Amrithi, because they possess the diluted blood of Daiva, refuse to make vows because their word is binding. We only know this because Suri tells us this, repeatedly. Again I ask, why? Why? Why? WHY?!? What about their words are binding? Does it only have to be a spoken vow or a vow that manifests as writing on the skin? How can Mehr actually feel a bond with the Maha if the only vow she made is one of marriage with her husband and thus she is not directly bound to the Maha? How does the marriage bond have the same power as a vow especially since it is a construct of the non-magical Ambhan society? I could go on for days with these questions (I’ve got and entire second post-it note of confused questions left), but I’ll let the point make itself – for every page I read I found the only way to continue forward was to simply accept the ‘facts’ provided by text and to not try and find support through the landscape. This continues as a theme throughout the book with each new fact seeming to conflict with previous information. The Daiva are bound to bless the Maha through a ritual that was once given to the Amrithi by the Daiva. Why would the Daiva ever give a ritual to a group of people that would weaken them? Better yet – why do the Daiva even exist in this world? I have to physically stop myself from continuing to monotonously list questions, but suffice to say, the closer we got to the end of the book the more questions I gathered and once the Deus Ex Machina ending slapped me in the face I had no hope for a coherent resolution and my only goal was to finish before I chucked the book against the wall in dismay. So I’m done beating this dead horse; let’s change tact and discuss the characters. I think what frustrates me the most is that Empire of Sand starts strong. Mehr’s bloodletting to seal the Daiva from her home is a strong, poignant scene and Mehr’s strength of character comes forth at once as a resilient noble woman, unloved but stronger for it. The first chapter grabbed me but each subsequent chapter had me drifting further away as I developed a disconnect with Mehr. She seemed strong and sly at first, but her obsession with dancing during the Dreamfire (oh forgot about this: what is Dreamfire? Why does it exist in this world? What causes it? How does it affect people without Amrithi blood?) put me off as she continuously ignored the dangers associated with a.) being outside alone as a female, and b.) revealing her Amrithi nature. So by the time the consequences of her dumb decisions come to bear I was annoyed by her. Add to that her constant observations on the weaknesses of others and her decisions to then not use the information to her advantage and I failed to see how any of her inner thoughts were even remotely useful or helpful. I could next spend time discussing Amun, but I already presented what I know about him. He’s the love interest. He’s bound to the Maha is a vague way. Personality wise – there’s nothing there. Just as there is no world building or characterization, there is also no conflict, probably because there is no plot. The Maha is dictated as evil, with no multilayered characterization. He’s evil except that his people love him, He’s evil except that all he does is tell Mehr to perform his rite and occasionally slap her down. He’s evil except that the Empire somehow exists in harmony (except for the Amrithi and Ambhan), at least I think it does, since there are no neighboring states (that we know of) and the Empire has never fallen, so it must be doing okay for itself. So Mehr and Amun follow the Maha’s direction without a question or fight, and practice the Rite of Dreaming. Day and Night. Chapter by Chapter. For two hundred pages. Sometimes they talk while dancing. Sometimes they don’t. Sometimes people watch them, sometimes they’re alone. Hey I’m a fan of dancing; maybe the lyrical movements described in the prose paint a beautiful picture? Nope. In fact, the dance is NEVER actually described via movement. It is nothing but ‘Mehr lifted her arms and formed a sigil’ repeatedly. What the hell does a sigil even look like? Is this one different from the one before? No idea. At one point Mehr and Amun stop dancing long enough to attempt to break the Maha’s claim on them, but when that attempt is foiled by a moment of predictable stupidity they abandon their plan and continue to dance. Oh well, better luck next time. I think it’s time I finally put this book to rest, but I’m just so flabbergasted because I’ve never experienced a book where the author has a nice writing prose but a lack of substance. Usually lack of substance goes hand in hand with poor writing but Suri’s use of language is sound. I think that’s probably why it took me so long to realize that nothing actually made sense and that I wasn’t enjoying myself. And even when I became aware that the story wasn’t exactly fitting together as I hoped, I still held judgment because her writing style left me with an expectation that she would pull it all together, but when I reached the end and found nothing but knotted string in my hand instead of a tightly coiled skein I was beyond annoyed and more importantly, disappointed. Add to it the fact that book 2 features Mehr’s sister as its main character, a character who graced no more than 10 pages and spent 5 of them crying, I knew I’d had enough. Because of her skill with a pen, I’ll reserve judgment on her ability to eventually write a decent book, but I’m definitely not going anywhere near her books in the next 10 years. ***2 Confuddled Stars***