Argh. I was so excited for this. The first was pitch perfect for me--an endearing mash up of mobsters, wuxia magic, gang wars and family drama. This felt more like a bunch of summaries from different points of view, a series of short stories that...don't really ever live up to the title.CONTENT WARNING: (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics)  loss of a loved one, body horror, extreme violence, off-screen rape, suicidal ideation Things to love:-Shae, Wen, Cory, Rohn. I thought these were great characters and each had very interesting arcs, although Rohn's disappointed me somewhat.-The politicking. The ins and outs, the favors, longstanding grudges, tits-for-tats etc. were all extensively thought out and meted out for us to understand.-The world. We see more of the world in this one, and it's an interesting take on colonizers from the POV of the recently oppressed.-Still a fun ride. Despite my reservations and nits that I pick, I read 70% of it in one go. It's got drama and humor and high stakes--it was fun to be here for it.Things I did not love:-The plot. If you thought book 1 was slow, this one makes it look like a roller coaster. I don't know what we achieved in this book? It was also quite laundry list. "This happened. And then this happened. But let me explain to you how that happened after the fact."-The writing. I thought Jade City was beautiful--emotive, evocative, but still flirting with the noir or gritty side of the genre. This was a bit more overblown and yet also more distant emotionally from the characters. There would often be multiple similes in the same sentence, and most of the book felt like a snapshot, a hightlight reel of the news like they used to show before propaganda films. Probably also because of this, there was a lot of telling and very little showing.-Anden and Hilo. I...don't understand? I don't understand them. They kept doing things that contradicted other things or actions they'd previously taken.-The solutions. Eesh. A lot of this was amateur hour crap. Sorry, Kauls, but if this is the way you respond, you need a new system. Ayt's gonna wipe the floor with you, and she ought to, she's way better at this. Where the hell were the No Peak lawyers!! This is EXACTLY why you have mob lawyers. Listen to me, aspiring gangsters: Get. A. Lawyer. Get a team of lawyers. And a media specialist. I don't care how fancy your education was, you can't be both an expert in kneebreaking and brand positioning. There you go, some free advice if for anyone who is reading this series for a "how to" guide to leading a cult, gang, or operation.-The ending. I think there was some deadline writing here. I started noticing inconsistencies, the tropes became overwhelming, things were recycled from book one...I would say this had been a 4 star book until the final few chapters.Yeah, I'm not sure what to do here. I'm disappointed that I didn't love it. I think I was just expecting a different story than the one the author wanted to tell. I was expecting to ride the high emotion and the energy we had at the end of book 1 and instead it's essentially treated as its own "season," if this were television. As such, it felt like a lot of set up or filler and not so much its own story.