An amazing fantasy stand-alone about genuinely terrifying fairies, a cursed prince, and two brave siblings caught in the middle. I’ve had my eye on this book for a long time, and I’m so glad I finally read it because The Darkest Part of the Forest was absolutely magical, creative, and so beautifully written. Holly Black’s writing style is captivating and dreamy and twisted; and although this story takes place in the real world, it feels like you are reading an old fairy-tale, which fits this book very well. The siblings Hazel and Ben live in a small town called Fairfolk, a city surrounded by a haunted forest full of Fairy Folk. In that forest stands a glass coffin, in which lies a sleeping, beautiful boy with horns on his head. The boy has been asleep for centuries, and although Hazel and Ben once dreamed of saving him when they were younger, things are different now. Both teenagers are hiding huge secrets for each other, but when one day the boy is freed and wicked fairies start crossing the forest borders into the human city, it’s up to them to trust each other and save Fairfold. Once, there was a girl who made a bargain with the Folk. She vowed she would save everyone in the world, but forget herself. Things didn’t end well. I love Hazel and Ben, not only as main characters but also as siblings. One of my all-time-favourite shows is Gravity Falls and one of the central points of that show are sibling relationships, and likewise the bond between Hazel and Ben plays an important role in this book. No matter how different they are in character – Hazel is the daring, outspoken one while older brother Ben is more calm and hesitant – they support each other 100% (even going so far as to make a…very shadowy bargain with the Folk to keep the other’s dream alive). The Fae are another element of this book that I loved. You’ll find no sweet, kind-hearted creatures in this book: the fairies are all manic and fierce and known for luring foolish people to their death. Yet this doesn’t stop the citizens of Fairfolk from throwing parties around the glass coffin, and raising a changeling child as their own. This mix of reality with fairy-elements, of unrelenting human spirit against wicked fairy magic, gives this book such an exciting atmosphere and inspiring power. My only complaint is that Black left a lot of her plot-lines half finished or not fleshed out enough (for example, Severin wasn’t nearly enough in the story). However, the mystery of Fairfolk is very intriguing, the (LGBT!) romance in the novel is very cute, and overall this is a very enchanting story. 4 stars