This book tried its best but didn’t succeed. I was so, so excited for this. A new Victoria Aveyard book featuring high fantasy world building, a group of characters (which means potential found family?????) and a female assassin character??? I was so sold. I loved Red Queen in seventh grade (I haven’t read it since but my tastes have definitely changed since then) and I had such high hopes for this.To say those hopes were not met is an understatement. This book just could not do it for me, and I don’t know why.First of all, the writing felt very stilted. It might be the fantasy world and/or the different characters, but the emotions and narratives in Red Queen came across so much stronger in comparison to this book. I know I shouldn’t compare them, but still. I was just expecting more.“I am ruler of Galland, but I am a queen, not a king. I must be careful in what I say, and what weapons I give my enemies. I will not give anyone cause to call me weak-minded or mad.”The world-building was also not that great, partly because it wasn’t explained very well (or maybe that’s my fault for not paying enough attention) and also because it wasn’t very original. It felt like a lot of things I'd seen before. Human kingdoms, immortal kingdoms, founding myths. Everything felt the same as a lot of other books.Honestly, the immortals were the same as the Elves in Lord of the Rings or the Fae in Throne of Glass, except that they didn’t have pointy ears or fancy powers. Everything else, in terms of politics, descriptions and customs, was exactly the same.And while the political climate was written really well, it felt overused. The kingdoms were well-defined but not really expounded upon unless they were brought into the plot. Basically, the geography and world felt really stale to me.“We agreed to terms, Sorasa and I,” Domacridhan said, bringing an end to his story. He raised his head and stared at Corayne in desperation, enough to make her skin itch. “And she led me here, to Lemarta. To you, the only person who can help us, and save the world entire.”The characters just didn’t stand out to me at all. They were described in such epic ways in the synopsis and on the back of the cover, but they felt so flat and undeveloped. None of them got much layering through the whole book, which is unfortunate because it makes them harder to remember.Corayne had my attention at first, because the way she was described in the beginning made me think she would be this fierce protagonist, but that didn’t happen. She was literally so useless and couldn’t figure out what she was doing with her life for the WHOLE BOOK. I don’t understand how everyone expected her to save the world just because her dad was a hero. If the fate of our world rested on her shoulders, I would automatically become a doomsday prophet.She was supposedly intelligent and supposedly brave, but I just found her to be an insecure little girl. And while I would love to have more insecure protagonists who don’t have the greatest confidence in their abilities, I don’t want those to come in the form of a whiny child like Corayne.First, she was all depressed because her mom wouldn’t let her go sailing with her, and then she was in disbelief because - surprise! Her dad was a Spindleblood hero, and that’s why she’s never felt like she fits in with people. Because she and her dad were descended from mythological people. And then she became this apparent heroine who could save the world.“Like always, she felt a barrier between herself and the throng of people, as if she were watching them through glass.”She’s so ~special~! She can speak half a dozen languages and knows almost every kingdom on the map and she’s an accomplice to her mother, who is a pirate! And she doesn’t fit in with the crowd because of her ~heritage~ and she has to ~save the world.~Domacridhan was literally a rock come to life, but immortal life because he’s an immortal and can’t get hurt like humans. He’s stronger and faster than humans. He doesn’t need to eat or sleep because he’s not human. Oh, and he’s immortal. He’s not human.“I can't imagine living for a thousand years and still being so stupid...It's almost an accomplishment.”For once, I agree with the characters (I don’t remember who said this, but it doesn’t matter because I rarely agreed with any of them).Sorasa was so, so promising. You expect me not to want to be obsessed with an assassin?But she was so disappointing. I wanted this badass queen who was, as the synopsis said, merciless and lethal. What I got was this stuck-up, I’m-better-than-you, ~secretive~ caricature who pretended not to have emotional attachments and morals but failed miserably. While I would love this trope, it didn’t work with someone as stiff and annoying as Sorasa. She was more like a know-it-all who could throw daggers than an actually interesting character.“Sorasa tried to remember the last time she’d said thank you to a living person and meant it. Years, if not decades, she realized, racking her brain. Well, no use in breaking the streak now.”Andry could have been so much better if he’d gotten development. I would like to say I liked him the most out of all the characters, but I honestly don’t remember most of his chapters. He was nice and he did his best, and he cared for his mom. He was a sweet character, but too boring for me to enjoy that. The potential was there.“The squire will march and fight and carry on until he drops. Until someone gives him permission to stand back, and be a little less strong.”Sigil was cool but not that important and I can’t really tell why she was included in the synopsis.Same thing for Charlie.And then the witch lady was just straight-up annoying. I think it’s interesting and unique that an eighty-year-old lady was included on a quest in a book like this, but I could not bring myself to give a fuck about her existence, other than being annoyed.I just expected so much better from Victoria Aveyard. Where are the intriguing characters and aesthetic settings? What happened to the romance?Seriously. What is Corayne and Andry? Their relationship was duller than cardboard and less exciting than a childhood crush (spoiler: I’ve never had a childhood crush). Nothing about them had any chemistry. Maybe part of the problem was that I couldn’t care about their characters, but still. This is what we got? From the same woman who made the hordes scream over Mare and Maven?“No amount of squiring had prepared him for a girl like Corayne. Noble ladies, perhaps, shy behind their hands or scheming in their silks. But not the girl in front of him, with a sword on her back and maps in her pockets, the starless night in her eyes.”I’m just…disappointed.I knew this wouldn’t make me fangirl over it the way Red Queen did, because I was twelve when I read Red Queen and I have different standards now, and I haven’t seen a lot of my friends enjoying this book, but I wanted to at least have some fun with it. I expected something that I would like - I mean, it’s a fantasy written by an author I used to obsess over.The best thing about this book, in my opinion, was the commentary on how the world works in relation to girls.“Boys do stupid things to feel like men, no matter how old they are.”“Even when it isn’t the end of the world, the realm is a dangerous place for women.”“Only men can speak all day long and still think themselves silent.”Overall, I liked the concept of this book way better than the execution. Everything about it was built up in a really solid way, and I would be lying if I said I didn’t get swept into it. But nothing happened for me. Nothing made me care. It’s not that it wasn’t interesting or good, but it wasn’t developed enough to really take advantage of how good it could have been. I was waiting and waiting for it to follow through on its promises, and it never did.