❝Emma, everyone's afraid of something. We fear things because we value them. We fear losing people because we love them. We fear dying because we value being alive. Don't wish you didn't fear anything. All that would mean is that you didn't feel anything.❞

I DID IT. After months of avoiding, slumping, and adulting... I FINALLY FINISHED. I spent weeks contemplating how I was going to rate Lord of Shadows and I've come to the decision that this sequel was probably a solid 3.5 STARS for me. It pains my heart to give any book in this trilogy anything close to three stars because it's my second favorite Shadowhunter series behind The Infernal Devices (sadly, The Mortal Instruments is not on my list of Shadowhunter faves. 😅)Although, Lord of Shadows was enjoyable for the most part, I did feel as though it was painfully slow (and boring 🙊) in some parts, and in some others, I did feel as though they could've been omitted completely. That being said, long story short, Lord of Shadows was unnecessarily too long. I'm a bookworm. THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS TOO LONG WHEN IT COMES TO A BOOK. Sometimes. 😉 In this case, it might've been about 100-200 pages TOO long. 😂 It suffered a case of something similar to what I had to endure while reading TMI, and after reading so many Shadowhunter books, I finally figured out what exactly that case was. It was the case of "TOO MANY POVS I DIDN'T CARE ABOUT" syndrome.I don't have a problem with multiple POVs. Just with boring ones. And there was a lot of it going on in Lord of Shadows. We were constantly switching over from the main storyline to side storylines and POVs that I really couldn't care less about which caused a lot of things to happen all at once and feel as though the book was all over the place. Plus, some characters kept getting sidetracked with the most pointless things such as the bond between Mark and Cristina. POINTLESS. 🙄 Which also brings me to another thing I hated about this book. It brought too much focus on Mark, Cristina, and Kieran. Individually, I wouldn't mind because I love these three characters but... It's a hard pass for me. There was too much romantic focus, specifically between Mark and Cristina. And that's coming from someone who loves romance books! At one point, I was beginning to wonder if Emma/Julian/the Blackthorns were even the main characters in this trilogy anymore because we spent so much time with the love triangle (square if you count Perfect Diego) between Mark/Cristina/Kieran. It seriously felt like Cassandra Clare kept shoving Mark and Cristina down our throats and I just couldn't stand it anymore. 😭 I wouldn't be complaining so much if it was Mark and Kieran or even Cristina and Kieran, but for Pete's sake, stop trying to make Mark and Cristina happen. IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN. Lol Mean Girls. 💀💕 But in all seriousness though, Mark and Cristina felt too forced to me and I didn't feel any of their chemistry. Kieran and Cristina had more chemistry and for all we know, that ship is nonexistent before it even gets a chance to start. I would gladly give up majority of the pages dedicated for Mark and Cristina to get more of Jules and Emma time because LoS was lacking in that area.Other things I hated that I want to mention but they don't deserve my time and explanation: ZARA and the Cohort. Need I say more?Okay. Enough Petty Mikee. Let's get to the positive stuff. 🤗I love the bond and friendship between Ty, Livvy, and Kit. At first, they fell under the category of "POVs I don't care about" but they quickly grew onto me and I began to appreciate the role they had for each other. ❤️Emma and Julian. My babies. There wasn't enough of it. Period.Diana and Gwyn. Y'all. I'm 100 PERCENT on board with this. Give me MORE.The Blackthorns. They're all just too precious for this freakin world. I love them all so much. I've seen people talking down on Julian and his ruthlessness to do whatever it takes to protect his family, but those are his babies. He raised those kids while he was child himself. How can anyone not understand the lengths and sacrifices he would go to to protect each and every one of the Blackthorns and Emma? 😓 He may be ruthless to some eyes but the way I see it, his heart is filled with SO much love for his family but to a certain fault.Now. There's the ENDING. Sadly, I was spoiled with the ending for Lord of Shadows so it's really quite unfortunate to say that it didn't impact me as much as it would have if I was able to experience it without it being ruined for me. My heart still broke seeing it unfold, but I can only imagine the bigger impact it would've had on me if I found out for myself as it happened. But once things get spoiled, you get robbed of that one-time experience unfortunately. 🤷🏻‍♀️ It was still heartbreaking nonetheless, and... it was exactly one of the things I feared Cassie would pull in this series sooner or later. It was obvious that she had plans to bring out the big guns and hit us where she knows it would hurt, and the only way to do that was to hurt the ones near and dear to ALL of our hearts, the Blackthorn children. It was an unnecessary evil, but a predictable attempt to get a reaction from her readers. It was a matter of WHEN and WHO the unlucky Blackthorn was going to be. We knew Blackthorn blood needed to be spilled to set Annabel free. It was too good to be true to let it just be Arthur Blackthorn, the only Blackthorn that we didn't care for or the Blackthorn we were ALL willing to sacrifice (ADMIT IT. 😈)Lord of Shadows didn't really come close to the bar of expectations that Lady Midnight set but it left a lot to anticipate for the conclusion to The Dark Artifices. The book suffered a bit of second book syndrome and more but it is evident that Cassandra Clare has so much in store for us in the finale and I'm confident that it would not disappoint. A lot of death is bound to happen so the only thing we can do is prepare ourselves to the havoc that Cassie is itching to wreck. 👀