He told me of your journey, and I guessed your mission. I knew you would not survive the Lord of Shadows' tricks without aid."Lord of Shadows you get ALL of the stars!Spoiler free review, although I do mention bits that I like that don't give away the storyline. If you haven't read Lady Midnight I'd suggest you don't read this :)I have eagerly anticipated this book since I finished Lady Midnight and it honestly didn't let me down what so ever. I had the best two girls to buddy Read with Sailor and Fathima Thank you both for putting up with me! I don't think I could of done this alone!Just a pre-warning, I absolutely love anything Shadowhunter related, they're my favourite type of books and Cassandra Clare is my favourite author, so I will more than likely be gushing away. I don't know what it is, but the characters are SO detailed, and charming it's hard not to love them.I'm going to have to include my favourite quote from the book here, it's too beautiful not to include:"Do you know why I'm sure? Because when this universe was born, when it blasted into existence in fire and glory, everything that would ever exist was created. Our souls are made of that fire and glory, everything that would ever exist was created. Our souls are made of that fire and glory, of the atoms of it, the fragments of stars. Everyone's are, but I believe ours, yours and mine, are made from the dust of the same star. That's why we've been drawn to each other like magnets, all our lives. All the pieces of us belong together." - Julian BlackthornComing into this, I'd kind of prepared myself for my heart to just break over and over, what I didn't expect was to cry so much at the teeny tiny little things! My heart broke for Julian and Emma, the whole family, Christina and Kieran. These characters are just so close to my heart! The character development in this book was just outstanding."They stood in a line: the Shadowhunters, the warlock and the faerie prince.""The way I love you is fundamental to me, Emma. It's who I am. No matter how far we are from each other." - Julian BlackthornWhere do I even begin with Emma and Julian? During my buddy reads, this was brought up so much! Do you know when you want a pair to be together so much, but it jus doesn't look like it's ever going to happen? Here we have it! We'll always be parabatai, Emma. It's for life. - Julian Blackthorn What makes them special is that they're both quite strong characters, but for completely different reasons. All I want to do is gush about how lovable Julian is. I mean come on, this guy will do anything, literally anything to protect his family. Even in his darkest times he always puts others before himself. What really moves me about Julian is that even though he is hurting he wants to put others happiness before his own. My heart hasn't broken this much over a character since my love Will Herondale. Emma on the other hand, at times I just wanted to shake her and to confess all to not only Julian but to Mark as well! I understand where she is coming from, but you know! Anyway other than that, I'm looking forward to her character development for The Queen of Air and Darkness. I mean come on, for those who have read this, we know! "In Faerie, I would challenge Rosales to a duel for this, he broke his promise, and a love-promise at that. He would meet me in combat if Cristina consented to let me be her champion." - Mark BlackthornEven now I'm still very very confused with Mark, Cristina and Kieran. Now don't get me wrong, I love them all, but what on earth is happening?! Do they all like each other, is it going to be just two of them together in the end? I DON'T KNOW! What I do know is that I actually really, really, really enjoyed all three of these characters throughout. What I like so much, is that they all contrast from each other and it's all very odd, but so good! We have Cristina who is just a nice girl trying to do what's right. What I really liked is that we got to see her inner child, especially when it comes to Faeries. Something Cristina said was so beautiful I had to include it, so here it is: "Love is as strong as death. I believe that." Mark who is such a lovable odd person you can't ever be mad at him. I mean come on! Just the things he says, and how he acts, but doesn't understand why they may be odd to others. Then we have Kieran, the Faerie who gives off the impression he is superior to all, but really just wants to be loved and accepted. It's hard to keep up with these three but they all brought something different. My highlight for Kieran was 100% him bowing and winking when he was called a traitor, it was glorious. I think the dancing scene was so special, and so unique I was just sat there like is this really happening? It was just so perfect! I can't wait to read more!There's nobody else I'd rather be like than you, I Want you to be proud of me." - Livvy BlackthornLivvy, Sherlock and Watson Ty and Kit once again, I have no idea what so ever what is going on with this trio. I just loved the friendship/relationship which was built between these. I think in this book in particularly you could see them developing into their shadowhunting roles and I honestly found it so enjoyable. (Did anyone notice that when Kit held the Serpah blade, it seemed to glow brighter and brighter, or is this just me). I am beyond curious to find out what is going on with Ty and Kit, are they just very close friends orrrrr?! I love how they're all so close, and if one's in danger the others come to each others aid to help each other out. Seriously though, the standout for me was definitely the promising friendship of Ty and Kit AKA, Watson and Sherlock! Kit is just so understanding, can I put him in my pocket please?But he knew he could reassure her. He wasn't leaving the Shadowhunters. He wasn't going anywhere. Because where the Blackthorns were, was his home now.Diana and Gwyn. I think I may have a slight soft spot for Gwyn. Don't ask me why, I couldn't tell you, but I do! This pair are SO good together, I mean they help each other out, they respect one another. Gwyn is so understanding and doesn't even seem to bat an eye. I really really loved Diana opening up to Gwyn, and that made me respect these two so much more. I LOVE THEM OKAY!They wanted their revenge, The Council. They didn't see how revenge begets more revenge. "For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind"" - Magnus Bane We got more of Magnus and Alec wooooo! Most people love Magnus, and I'm no exception. I was so happy how involved these two were in the book, I liked the glimpses we got into their life now, how they've developed and the children are so damn cute!Finally, I'm hoping we see more of Dru, you know who and Tavvy in the final series of the book, we get glimpses into them, but I really want more...I have conflicting views about The Centurions, lets be honest Zara is a complete bitch, as his her following. But I think that there's going to be more to it with the others. I'm intrigued to find out more and find out more about Perfect DiegoThis part was going into the bits I liked but I think it needs a special mention. Can I just say how HAPPY I am that there were so many connections to previous books, and a lot of that was for The Infernal Devices! When I say this, I mean it. I literally cried of happiness. We got so many beautiful moments.There were valuable first editions of books in the enormous library, most of them had been scribbled in by some idiot named Will H. Photographs of them all together, Jessamine popping up. I-A-M-R-U-I-N-E-D. Not only that but we had Bridget as well! I was hoping for her morbid tunes, instead we got a hilarious line: "The Herondales have always been famous for their good looks, but if you ask me, the Lightwoods are the more sexually charismatic of the bunch."What I liked ahm loved- Mark wanting to be Cristinas champion, I was crying with laughter. I don't know why, it honestly really made me laugh.- I really enjoyed that we got to see something from Arthurs point of view, I think he's such an interesting character and was quite surprised we got a glance of something from him. P.S - "Tell Julian thank you" - Arthur Blackthorn MY HEART! Not only that, but when he protected Ty and Livvy, it was such a proud moment. - Chapter 11 was very very veryyyyyy good- The development of Kit and him coming to terms he's a Shadowhunter, not just a Shadowhunter but a Herondale. When he took up the Serpah for first time I was like YASSSS! Then an Iratze YASSSSS AGAIN!- The trades the four make to get into the Courts, I liked the fact they each gave something, and they were also told something in return. Each one of these were so perfect!- All of the secrets. There's so many questions I want answering.- Ty in the Shadow Market gave me life! I was cheering him on!- The way in which something is told is so heartbreaking, I don't want to go into too much detail because of spoilers... but I just think it was handled very well. - THE RIDERS! I'm intrigued okay...- THAT LETTER! I was in tears, it was so special and so beautiful. Broke me. What didn't I like?- The only thing that I don't like is the length of the chapters (for anyone that noticed and read my updates) I can't stop part way through a chapter, and these are sooooooo long!- Out of 29 chapters, there was only (for me personally) one chapter that seemed to be nonsense and not a lot really happened. - I really wanted more Jem and Tessa!Re-read 07.04.2023I am honestly baffled at how much I've forgot from this book other than the biiiiiiiig reveals. Honestly I found it so fascinating seeing more of the Fae and all of the different kinds that there are. Genuinely forgot that this one begins all of the hate and Zara who IMO is probably the worst character I've seen in the Shadowhunter world and that's saying something.I love all of the different dynamics with the characters. You of course get Julian and Emma and you see how all consuming their love is. You see at what lengths they'd go to protect one another and I know we always hear about Julians love for the children and just how far he's willing to go for them you see his thought process with certain situations and I honestly found it fascinating to see.My fave trio is always Cristina, Mark and Kieran. I just love seeing how they all respect each other and are very aware of one another and what they all mean to each other. I love that even when one isn't there, they have a level of respect and will defend one another. I would say more but I've already cried about it enough.Livvy, Ty and Kit. N'awwwww I can't even. I just love how understanding and patient Livvy and Kit are towards Ty. They just get him whole heartedly and will defend him no matter what. I love that they have their own independence this time and are willing to go out and do things. Seeing how much they have grown and that they understand just how much they've been protected by Julian you see them want to help and it was just so sweet to see.Going into Queen of Air and Darkness I once again only remember snippets so this is going to be a fun experience and probably have all of the feels (which ofc I am dreading). Overall a very enjoyable read. I do think that Lady Midnight still holds something a bit more, but I don't know if it's because I seem to remember it more. Who even knows!WHO IS ASH?! Me and Sailor think he's "the weapon" for The Queen of Air and Darkness The excitement is real!Why do we have to wait TWO years! That ending ripped my heart out and just was like, see you in two years!"After all, when you are dying of thirst, it was the sip of water you dreamed about, not the whole reservoir."P.S - I don't think I'll ever be okay with that ending. Heartbroken."I never thought what we had could break so easily." - Julian BlackthornSecond read thoughtsI still love this, probably more the second time around, out of the trilogy this is hands down my favourite! Pre thoughts belowNOT LONG TO GO AND A PAGE HAS BEEN RELEASED! The excitement is real!---------UPDATE...ANOTHER SNIPPET TO A PAGEThe teasing is real.----------GUYS WE HAVE ANOTHER PAGE, I'm NOT COPING"I want to be parabatai again," she said "The way we were before"MY POOR JULIANThese teasers are too much...----------All Cassandra Clare Reviews:The Infernal DevicesClockwork Angel - 5 StarsClockwork Prince - 5 StarsClockwork Princess - 5 StarsThe Infernal Devices (Manga) Reviews:Clockwork Angel - 5 StarsClockwork Prince - 5 StarsClockwork Princess - 5 StarsThe Last HoursChain of Gold - 4 StarsChain of Iron - 5 StarsChain of Thorns - 4 StarsThe Mortal InstrumentsCity of Bones - 5 StarsCity of Ashes - 4 StarsCity of Glass - 4 StarsCity of Fallen Angels - 2 StarsCity of Lost Souls - 3 StarsCity of Heavenly Fire - 4 StarsThe Eldest CursesThe Red Scrolls of Magic - 3 StarsThe Dark ArtificesLady Midnight - 5 StarsLord of Shadows - 5 StarsQueen of Air and Darkness - 5 Stars