Although Spindle's End has the same kind of dreamy, vague narrative (with virtually no dialogue) as the much beloved Beauty, I couldn't enjoy it. I thought that the first few chapters were absorbing, hinting at a rich fantasy world, engrossing traditions, and fairies and magicians. The magic in that country was so thick and tenacious that it settled over the land like chalk-dust and over floors and shelves like slightly sticky plaster-dust.McKinley starts off by introducing charming details, right from the first chapter: If you lived in that country, you had to de-scale your kettle of its encrustation of magic at least once a week, because if you didn't, you might find yourself pouring hissing snakes or pond slime into your teapot instead of water. The author is also adept at portraying lively animal characters. One of my favourites was a tomcat named Flinx.Cats were often familiars to workers of magic because to anyone used to wrestling with self-willed, wayward, devious magic -- which was what all magic was -- it was rather soothing to have all the same qualities wrapped up in a small, furry, generally attractive bundle that looked more or less the same from day to day and might, if it were in a good mood, sit on your knee and purr.Based on my personal experiences with my own cat overlord, I can definitely agree with the general portrayal of cat behavior. Katriona's theory was that cats were one of the few members of the animal kingdom who had a strong artistic sense, and that aggravated chaos was the chief feline art formBut despite all of this, the book flagged so much in the middle that I almost abandoned it. None of the characters seemed well-developed to me, except perhaps Katriona (a young fairy who adopts the princess) and the lost princess herself (named Rosie). The villain's motivations were of the "Destroy and Conquer the World" variety, which didn't impress me. And the climactic confrontation at the end was so vague and dreamlike that I felt deeply unsatisfied and irritated.There's a very high possibility that I just wasn't in the right mood for this book, since many reviewers have enjoyed it. I think people who liked the writing style and gentle pace of Beauty could perhaps give this a shot (although the obligatory romantic elements in Spindle's End seemed perfunctory and lifeless to me).