Hmm, what a mixed bag. This was one of those books that I owned, but hadn't reread since joining Goodreads over 12 years ago. I couldn't remember much about it except that it was a Sleeping Beauty retelling. As I began this reread, I was surprised at how much I was enjoying it. Why had past-Jamie given this only 3 stars? This was a delightfully cozy and atmospheric little fantasy book full of fairy whimsy! Surely this was going to be at least a 4 star book, if not a 5. Maybe past-Jamie just didn't appreciate it enough at the time.The beginning gives us the usual Sleeping Beauty set up: king and queen finally have a long awaited baby, and invite a mess load of people and fairies to the princess' name day. When the fairies are bestowing magical gifts, a wicked fairy shows up all ticked off at not having been invited, and curses the princess to prick her finger on a spindle and die. A lesser fairy intercedes and alters the curse to just make the princess fall asleep. The princess is sent into hiding so that the evil fairy can't find her and prematurely enact the curse.In this book, the princess is bundled off with a minor fairy, Katriona, from a far flung backwater of the kingdom, who carries her, disguised, all the way back to her home. The princess is nursed by animals the whole way home, and when they finally arrive at Katriona's village the story is told that the baby is an orphaned cousin of Katriona's that she brought home to care for. The princess grows up in the village, ignorant of her true identity.I really liked the beginning of this book. I liked the whimsical-yet-grounded feel of this kingdom, the village, the magic, the fairies...all of that. I like how the kingdom was so saturated with magic that people have to remind bread to stay bread while baking, babies tend to overflow with chaotic magic, and tea kettles have to be descaled from magic build up. I like how the fairy gifts bestowed on the princess (now called Rosie) were completely ridiculous and weren't at all useful to a normal person. I like how un-princess-like Rosie was as a child, despite the fairy gifts of a beautiful singing voice, rosy red lips, and impeccable embroidery. I enjoyed all of that. Until Rosie grew up.I'm not sure where the exact shift was, but somewhere along the way there was a change and I stopped enjoying this as much. I think it was somewhere around the point that Rosie, now a late teen, realized she was in love with the blacksmith that she worked for. Except....ew. He was like a full-fledged adult, already well established as a blacksmith, when Rosie was brought to the village as a baby. His exact age wasn't given, but based on that backstory I'd say he'd have to be AT LEAST twenty or so when she was a baby. So when Rosie's 19, he's probably almost 40? I understand an age difference like that if you'd met when you were both well into adulthood....but don't fall for a guy who met you in diapers and basically mentored you since toddlerhood. *cringes* No thanks. But alas, that's the direction the story goes. Ok, whatever, let's pretend maybe he was like a blacksmithing prodigy, who was already well set up at like....12 years old? Yeah, let's pretend that's the case.Regardless of the romantic age differences, this is there the book started to flag for me. Rosie eventually figured out that she's the long-lost princess, and around the same time the important fairies realize that the wicked fairy has sniffed out Rosie's whereabouts. So a plan is hatched to confuse the magic by having Rosie's best friend Peony pose as the princess. Done.....Aaaannnnddddd then the next hundred pages or so completely dragged for me. Reading about the two of them getting ready for the princess' 21st birthday celebration was excruciatingly dull. Maybe it's because the previous 150 pages briskly covered twenty-one years, and now the next hundred pages wallow through a few months? We know how this story is going to go: the princess is GOING to prick her finger, and fall into a deep sleep while the castle gets covered in brambles. So the wait between "Oh, I'M the princess?" and spindle time just felt needlessly dragged out. Like, it was literally a HUNDRED pages. By the time the spindle stab happened, I was so bored that I didn't really care anymore. Oh, and guess what happens after that? The next 40 or so pages were spent in a dream-like fantasy sequence where Rosie and old-man-love-interest-blacksmith run around with a bunch of animals, defeating the evil fairy in a convoluted surreal manner. *annoyed sigh* I REALLY dislike dream sequences (or fantasy sequences that are so wooey mystical that they might as well be dreams), so I blatantly skimmed that whole chunk. The beginning of this book was whimsical, sure, but it felt grounded somehow. Like there was magic, but the stuff the people did and interacted with felt tangible and real. To have the climax of this book feel so disconnected and surreal was just....disappointing.I tuned back in for the last ten pages or so, to read the ending where Rosie and the other good fairies did some magic to basically make Peony the real princess after all, so that she could marry a prince that she already liked, and Rosie could go back to the village and be a regular civilian working with horses. This might have been a satisfying ending to me if I hadn't been so godawfully bored for the last 150ish pages.*SIGH*Now I understand why past-Jamie only gave this three stars. Back then, I was in a stage of "must own every fairy-tale-retelling" so I still bought my own copy of this to complete my Robin McKinlay collection....but I also see why I subconsciously chose not to reread it this entire time.So, this was like two different books to me. The first half (ish) was charming, and pleasant, and whimsical, and generally delightful. I think this book might be what tickled the back of my brain while reading some of T. Kingfisher's books more recently. It has that fun, chatty narrative that wanders down side paths from time to time but you don't mind because it's setting the scene so pleasantly. It's like a warm hug of a cozy fantasy book. 4.5 stars.But then the second half (ish), was tedious and went on for way too long, and there was the weird twice-her-age romance, and the climax was just a whirl of feverish cloudy dreamlike confusion. 1.5 stars.I can feel myself pouting in disappointment with how this book turned out. Oh well. I'm no longer in the must-own-every-book mindset, so I feel a certain amount of relief at letting this one go, finally. It makes me a little apprehensive to reread my other McKinlay books (which have also lain fallow since I joined Goodreads), but time will tell.