“Free-a small word for such a magnificent thing. I don't know what it feels like, but I want to find out.”~ Rating- 2 stars ~ Content/ Trigger Warnings- Ableism & ableist language, Parental abandonment, Child abuse & neglect, Mutism, Nightmares, Alcoholism, (implied), Blood depiction, Bullying, Death of a brother by knife violence recounted, Death of a mother & father mentioned, Death of a cousin (on-page), Graphic animal death (crow, cat), Murder, Knife & sword violence, Strangulation {Source}Note- I have tried to include all the content warnings that I noticed, but there is no guarantee that I haven’t missed something.-Mention of some of these in the review-“Safe does not mean happy, does not mean well, does not mean kind.”Gallant, by V.E. Schwab is my seventh book by this author. I didn't really have high expectations when I went it to it, as the premise didn't grip me as much, but I had not anticipated to dislike this book so much. I had hoped it would at least be a 3 star read, but the book left me completely uninterested and unbothered. I did not enjoy it at all. “Every house has secrets”Gallant is about Olivia Prior, who has grown up in Merilance School for girls. All Olivia has of her past is her mother’s journal—which seems to unravel into madness. When she gets a letter from her uncle inviting her to Gallant, she can't help but accept. Yet when Olivia arrives, no one is expecting her. But Olivia is not about to leave the first place that feels like home, it doesn’t matter if her cousin Matthew is hostile or if she sees half-formed ghouls haunting the hallways. Olivia knows that Gallant is hiding secrets, which she is determined to find out. “When people see tears, they stop listening to your hands or your words or anything else you have to say. And it doesn't matter if the tears are angry or sad, frightened or frustrated. All they see is a girl crying.”My thoughts:➼Gallant was very disappointing. ➼The moment I started Gallant, my first thought was "I've read this story before!" ➼Everything about Gallant reads like a cliché YA book. It has nothing unique to offer, apart from the representation. It felt like a typical Schwab story. ➼I've noticed that all of Schwab's stories have a very standard format. This is not always a bad thing, as it could be the authors style, except in this case I am getting bored of reading the same thing every time I pick up Schwab.➼All of Schwab's plots are similar, centered around death, and all of them have the exact same kind of female protagonist; one who is 'unique', 'special', and 'not like other girls'. Its annoying how the character archetypes are so similar; Lila Bard, Kate Harker, Sydney, Serena and Addie, to name a few.➼If I had to compare all of them, I can barely think of any differences. They all act the same way, say the same things, and none of them form any lasting female friendships with other characters. In fact, this is pretty much the only kind of female characters I see in Schwab's work. Ones who are dethatched from their emotions and act in a 'traditionally masculine' way. ➼There's nothing wrong with characters like that! I love reading about them! But if they are the only characters that appear in Schwab's work, its a bit disheartening, especially because the 'traditionally feminine' characters are always painted in a bad light, either as the 'bullies' or the 'annoying girls obsessed with make-up and dresses'. ➼I want Schwab to try out writing different characters and stop presenting the exact same thing to us. I'd love to see some amazing female friendships as well, because I don't see that in Schwab's work either. ➼Apart from that, the plot of Gallant is incredibly boring. There is a little bit that happens in the first 20-30 pages, and after that we get nothing but descriptions of a house. Which can be fun! If its done well. That was unfortunately not the case here. ➼Nothing happened in the entire book. No major plot twists, no big interesting revelations, no jaw-dropping moments. Just nothing. ➼There is a bit of action towards the end, but it gets wrapped up very quickly and we barely experience it.➼I already talked about the characters, but apart from the kind of cliché MC Olivia, we have 3 other characters- all of whose names I have forgotten and all of whom had no personality. ➼We also have a villain who doesn't get introduced until 60%. The villain was meant to be terrifying and scary, but he too had no personality. ➼I have no idea what the world building was, because we barely get any details on how the magic functions, how it exists and how it works. We have a magical house, ghouls and magic powers, except they don't really serve any purpose in the story. They fade into the background, until they suddenly pop up, do xyz the plot needs it to, and promptly fade back into the background. It was so annoying. ➼I wanted to feel connected to the characters, be immersed in their storylines, but I just felt a whole load of nothing towards them. I was so unaffected. At one point, I almost feel asleep while reading the book. ➼I'm also not sure who exactly the target audience and age group for this book was either. It is marketed as adult, but it reads like middle grade. ➼The writing style was the only saving grace of this book. I've never had complaints with Schwab's writing, and fortunately this was no exception.➼The audiobook narration was also pretty good, and this would be a great starting point if you are new to audiobooks. “Olivia Prior has never been a quiet girl. She has always made a point of making noise, everywhere she goes, in part to remind people that just because she cannot speak, does not mean that she is silent, and in part because she simply likes the weight of sound, likes the way it takes up space.”Overall, Gallant was a very boring read. I may pick up more books by this author, but I'm slowly loosing interest in her content. “She has declared it a reading day, she says. Nothing else to do when the weather turns.”Sorry for the short and vague review. I'm trying to clear up my 'to be reviewed', which currently has 145+ books so I'll be writing short reviews like this for popular books/ books I gave 2-3 stars.BR with Maddie!Review written on 27th May, 2022.Storygraph. Spotify. Youtube. Pinterest. Twitter. Instagram. Linktree.DISCLAIMER-All opinions on books I’ve read and reviewed are my own, and are with no intention to offend anyone. If you feel offended by my reviews, let me know how I can fix it.How I Rate-1 star- Hardly liked anything/was disappointed2 star- Had potential but did not deliver/was disappointed3 stars- Was ok but could have been better/was average/Enjoyed a lot but something was missing4 stars- Loved a lot but something was missing5 stars- Loved it/new favourite..............................2 stars. BR with Maddie. RTC!