Now a Goodreads Choice finalist in Young Adult Fantasy!!A girl. A boy. A shadow with eyes. A door that won’t open. A place and its copy. Hidden rooms and hidden secrets. A shard of bone. And death itself.Be honest, how many Victoria Schwab books do those last few lines remind you of? A lot of great authors have a distinct style, something that makes their books identifiable without having to name them, and clearly she falls into that category. Schwab has been a favorite of mine over the past year and after relentless begging I got a chance to read a friend’s advance copy. If there’s one thing I can expect from one of her books, it’s to be swept away to a world just as magical as it is vicious.I really liked the premise. After being invited out of the blue by a mystery relative, Olivia moves from her dressed-up orphanage to a sprawling manor miles and miles away. The house has only three residents, two of them staff, and nobody seems willing to answer any of her burning questions. But it’s not just the house that’s sparsely populated; there doesn’t seem to be anyone living in the vicinity. The only thing that seems to be alive, breathing is an immense wall behind the back garden. Shadows don’t stick to it, and tangling grey vines attempt to poke their way through the structure, but still it calls to Olivia in a way she’s never felt before. There’s a lot to like in Olivia Prior. She doesn’t speak, she’s never been able to, but there’s plenty to glean from her character besides dialogue. Schwab does an excellent job finding ways for her to express herself without uttering a single word. With bottomless curiosity and a ferocious streak when provoked, Olivia is the quintessential Schwab heroine. Unlikeable and an outsider to the society she lives in, but easy for the reader to root for. There are glimmers of some of these qualities in other characters in the book, but none that feel as fully developed as she is.And that does seem to be my issue with this book. It’s just not a complete circle. Some things are delved into so deeply that I feel them coming to life around me, and others feel rushed through. The ending is also fairly abrupt for this level of magical build-up, to the point at the end I was wondering, ‘what was this all for?’Do you know how how frustrating it is to read 90% of a great story? Victoria Schwab’s writing is just so damn engrossing—she gets her hooks into you all she needs is to give a slight yank and I’ll come running. When she gets a story right it’s absolutely right. The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue and Vicious immediately come to mind. The writing and the characters are always consistently good from her, and the plot of those two is perfectly constructed. It’s just some of her books are missing something to make that perfect whole. All the ingredients are there, but it still doesn’t feel one hundred percent fully formed. I can’t even say what that extra 10% is or where is should go, just that it’s MIA.Would I say read Gallant? Absolutely if you’re a Schwab fan, but I probably won’t have to tell my fellow Schwablins that. If you like old gothic mansions, ghosts & the paranormal and a quieter, creeping kind of magic, then you may enjoy this as well. But I’m still on the hunt for that incredible fantasy novel of 2022, and though I had hoped this would be that book—I’m going to have to keep looking.**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!