This series used to be one of my favorites. I’ve been wondering for years whether it would hold up, whether I’d still love it as an adult the way I did as a teenager. I was fully expecting to be disappointed. But, to my surprise, I enjoyed Uglies just as much as the first time I read it.Tally Youngblood is the perfect protagonist. I’m bored to tears by “Chosen One” protagonists, the ones with special abilities and a mysterious past who always felt like they were “different.” Tally is the antidote to that, the polar opposite. She’s completely normal, average, just like everyone else. She has strengths and weaknesses. She makes mistakes. I’d be hard pressed to point to a more realistic and relatable character in all of young adult speculative fiction.Additionally, with Tally Youngblood, Scott Westerfeld places himself in an elite group of male authors who can actually write a realistic and relatable female protagonist, sans objectification. It shouldn’t be a Herculean task, writing women as complex individuals, but given how few men manage to accomplish it, I have to give Westerfeld props.The romance was pretty good. It didn’t have me swooning, but it added something to the story and to Tally’s character. It developed a little quickly for my tastes, but I guess teenagers are like that sometimes, and it wasn’t quite instalove. And I liked Tally’s love interest, David: He’s hardworking, levelheaded, and kind. Definitely boyfriend material.Other than Tally’s development, what I enjoyed most about this book was its pacing. Somehow Westerfeld found the exact formula to keep me turning pages late into the night. This book had me hooked; I couldn’t put it down even though I’d already read it and knew what happened. The chapters were short and there was never a dull moment. It’s pretty much exactly what I expect when I pick up a YA novel. I want to be entertained!The premise of Uglies is unforgettable and unique, the plot engaging, but the protagonist and pacing were what truly set it apart. Westerfeld is an incredibly talented writer and I look forward to rereading the rest of this series. (Ignoring Extras, which we will all pretend was never written.)