Okay, I needed some time to think about this book. Because I'm not really sure how to rate this one. a) I'm pretty unhappy with this book because I think this series should have ended with City of Glass. b) It's not as good as the three books were.c) Let's face it. This book has over 700 pages. When I found that out, I worried that there would be a lot useless and pointless talking. And I was right. The first part of the book was really, really annoying. There were few good action scenes, but mostly they talked and talked and they even talked about whether they should talk. They talked about what they should talk about. And they talked where they should talk about it... I think you know what I mean. There was just so much talking about nothing.The second part was a bit better. However, if this book had 500 pages or even less, it would be way better! I know editing is tedious, but sometimes it's a good thing to cut some content.d) Okay! It's pretty repetitive!  Okay, how many time we heard that you can't believe the Fair Folk? Well, at least a dozen times! However, they always think that they are so clever and that they made sure that the Fair Folk cannot say anything or trick them in some way. But guess what? They are wrong! Surprise! Or not .  I want Jace and Clary. So, you shall discuss it! When I heard that, and they said they would go to him, I was so afraid that it's gonna be like the fifth book over again; fortunately, it didn't happen that it means much. There was nothing surprising in this book. And the whole ending of this book/series is kind of tiring.  Let's face it, who died in this book? Kyle ('kay I don't remember the name, he was the werewolf who turned Mia/ Maia?), Raphael (That was a wrong move! He was cute! And like the only real vampire we got. Simon is/was a shame of the vampire name!) and there were others, but I can't really remember cause they weren't important. Except for Sebastian. But since he was the main bad guy he sort of had to die! Because he killed all those Shadowhunters. So if they found a way how to destroy the evil in him, he would be able to live among the Shadowhunters. So he had to die. Got it.All happiness is killing me! I really dislike Jocelyne, and she gets a happy ending! That's so bad! I'm disappointed! Then Simon... He hated being a vampire. Maybe daylighter but still a vampire. And then... There is the possibility how to same everyone - so he's another ultimate HERO - and as a bonus, he's human again! Celebration! Ah, wait! He lost his memories, poor him, poor Izzy... So, let's give him his memories back, at least some of them. And he was a hero, so let's make a shadowhunter out of him! It's so wrong! Nobody can get such a perfect ending! He got everything he possibly ever wanted! His mother loves him again. He's not going to survive all his friends. He doesn't have to drink blood. He can be a father... etc. Happily ever after. I think if there wasn't  this happy ending , I would enjoy this book more. There is much more I'm disappointed with in this book, but that would be a really, really long review. I think that after reading Bane Chronicles, I'm done with all CC books because I fell like she's using the same pattern over and over again.After this review, I found out that I'm angrier with this book than I thought. So the rating is somewhere between 1 and 2*. But because I think this book was written just for money, I want to go for 1* stars. But because I loved those characters and the story I'll go with 2*. Maybe I'll change it in future, but for now, I'll leave it at 2 stars, and I'll remove books four, five and six from my bookshelf. I'm going to pretend that the series ended with the original trilogy.