I have thoroughly enjoyed 'The Mortal Instruments' series. Here and there, I find myself wanting to break out of my usual romance genre and read a paranormal/fantasy story. This series was a fantastic choice for me!I listened to the Audible version of these books and they were a joy to listen to. The narrators did a wonderful job of drawing me into the story and holding my attention throughout the series. With six books, that's quite the feat. The final book in the series, 'City of Heavenly Fire' brings everything full circle. All of my questions were answered and I felt like I had closure. I was left feeling content, which is something I absolutely need with the end of a series. I can't stand to be left hanging, knowing that the answers will never come.That being said, there was definitely a bittersweet feel to some of the twists and turns. While I was glad to see things come to an end, there was some heartache along the way. The fates of Simon, and even dare I say--Sebastian, were tough to swallow. I was surprised by my own reaction to some of the events.One aspect of this book that I really liked was the way the author pulled all the characters together. It was rare to see them all working together vs. breaking off into small groups or pairs. Although everybody wasn't there at all times, my favorite characters were all together for the important action/battle scenes. On that note, let me say that I was very impressed with the authors ability to describe the worlds, battles and creatures throughout the series with such detail. The imagery was brilliant. I could easily visualize everything as if I were right there...down to the slurping sounds the bodies made as they fell to the ground.While I enjoyed the story very much, I'd be lying if I didn't say that I thought it could use some whittling down. At over 700 pages, or 27+ hours of audio, this last book was a mammoth. In fact, the story continued on for over 3 more hours past the point where the "epic showdown" had occurred. Things had pretty much been wrapped up, but there were excessive details about the aftermath of the war that just seemed to drag on and on...at least for me.If all of that length was meaningful content that enriched the story, I wouldn't be complaining. However, I thought that much of it could've been eliminated without taking away from the story. I "zoned out" a few times while listening and doing housework for minutes at a time, only to "come to" later without having ever skipped a beat. So, clearly some of that content wasn't critical to the story. All in all, this was a great conclusion to a fantastic series. It was certainly on the long side, but think of it as getting more bang for your buck! Pretty soon, I think I'll have to check out the prequel/spinoff series that my GR friends have been recommending to get my fix!