I DID IT. I FINISHED THE MORTAL INSTRUMENTS. I STAYED UNTIL THE VERY END.“Freely we serveBecause we freely love, as in our willTo love or not; in this we stand or fall.”I can't believe I finally finished this series. I am speechless. Completing all of The Mortal Instruments books feels like such an accomplishment. This is the first long-running series, with a total of six books, that I have ever read in my life.As a whole, The Mortal Instruments was a rollercoaster ride. I had a love/hate relationship with these books and some of its characters. I actually began to lose hope in this series but City of Heavenly Fire redeemed The Mortal Instruments for me.I hated Clary with a burning, fiery passion deep in my heart but she began to grow on me, along with Jace. I AM NOT a Clace fan. Not romantically, not even individually. They are my least favorite characters in The Mortal Instruments, which is fairly ironic because this series revolves around these two characters. But I found myself accepting the both of them in this book. They weren't the typical, annoying characters that they were 95% of the series. They were likable. They finally became the people they should've been from the very beginning. The romance, drama, and angst was kept to a minimum in this book, so thank you Cassandra Clare. Bless your soul.City of Heavenly Fire was every bit as action packed as I had imagined, maybe even more so. But at times, the story felt a bit slow and dragged on. A part of me sort of expected it because any book that's 700+ pages long is bound to feel a bit dragged. Thankfully, I didn't mind it much. I was kept on my toes for the most part and sped through the last 200 pages with a blink of an eye.This book and series ended perfectly with City of Heavenly Fire and I'm glad I persevered until the very last page no matter how irritated I became towards the last half of The Mortal Instruments. A part of me still feels like a chapter of my own life has come to an end because The Mortal Instruments has been a huge part of my reading experience. I'm so happy to have dived into the Shadow World and the Shadowhunter books when I did because now I only have to wait a few more days for the release of Lady Midnight. Thank goodness I won't have to suffer these withdrawals for long.I can't wait to be introduced to a whole new series in the Shadowhunter World. Before, I complained about Cassandra Clare's obsession with dragging this world on but after reading and finishing The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices, I now understand the love that readers have towards Shadowhunters and Cassandra's books. Thank you Cassandra Clare for your wonderful creation. Keep doing what you're doing because you've turned me into a loyal reader and I will read just about anything with your name on the cover.LADY MIDNIGHT, HERE I COME.