I want to start by saying I think this author has a real talent. I just don't think this book was for me and I think it could've used a lot more fine-tuning. First off, it was too long. It was so repetitive that I found myself rolling my eyes. The same type of events were happening for the first three hundred pages that I started to feel like it was a chore to get through. The story started out strong, but then it really just falls flat, much like the characters. The pacing felt off, again going back to the repetition. It was super frustrating at times. Every other chapter was either Red or Eammon fighting the forest and then which ever needed saving resented the other for saving them. It just got very tiresome. The romance was bad. I found myself cringing whenever there were scenes between Red and Eammon, everything was so cliche and there just seemed like there was no chemistry, like the only reason these characters were getting together was because of course the male and female characters HAVE to get together. I would probably have liked this book a lot more if the author just left the forced romance out of it. I found myself skipping scenes between Red and Eammon towards the end because it was just that unbearable. Aside from the romance, there just wasn't anything special about these characters. The other characters were just as unremarkable. I still am not even sure why Raffe, Lyra, and Fife (among others) were even in the story. They could be lifted right out and the story would virtually be unchanged. The only character I was excited to read about was Neve. (She might actually be the only reason I would even consider reading the sequel, as it seems like it will be focused on her). The magic system and lore was super confusing to me. I just found myself reading what was happening without really understanding why. I only really felt like I was given a broad and vague idea about how the mechanics of this world worked. I DID enjoy the atmospheric feel in some parts in regards to the Wilderwood and the Shadowlands. The Shadowlands actually sound super intriguing and since the sequel seems to take place there, I MIGHT read it (meaning it will sit on my TBR until the end of the time). I want to remind anyone reading this that these are just my opinions and how I interpreted the book. If you think you would like this, you should read it, don't let me discourage you! Your experience might totally be different from mine.