To compare this book to Bear and the Nightingale is like comparing Barney's Grand Adventure to Citizen Kane. God, what a trip.EDIT:I'd like to thank Edelweiss and Orbit for allowing me to read this book. I had seen this book being compared to Bear and the Nightingale and was like, 'hey, I enjoyed that book, it was well crafted, filled with Russian folklore and research, and I wasn't bored'. So I requested it, thinking that it was good, then some friends of mine said I should probably abort my mission. So, I took it off my 'to-read' list. I was accepted for the review and I knew I had to read it. What you got with this book is a 400+ page slog of confusion and riddles. Then, when things start making sense, you look back on what you read and go: 'why did I bother, why did they (the characters) bother?'Our hero? Red? Like some other reviews pointed out, she is pretty annoying. I also dislike (excuse me, get annoyed) when an author writes a character that attempts to be strong-minded but then does a 180 at the meeting of a boy. A very stubborn, stupid, emo-looking boy.The writing, as I put out, is a mess. There is repeated actions EVERYWHERE. If this makes it past an editor, and into final print, I will be concerned. (edit: It did, LOL) Characters 'lounge on doorways' far too often ; characters 'rub their hand/s over their face' far too often, Red thinks a thought she already thought about, again, far too often. Eammon is the wolf. You see, wolf is another word for 'warden'. People think a big, scary wolf is in the forest but in all honesty there is no wolf. Just a boy pretending to be a wolf or acting like one by snarling and letting his hair hang loose.The plot is this:There was this evil. The evil was locked away in a forest. Five kings decided to use their magic to seal the evil in. They planted / grew / magick'ed this white trees that act as a fence so no evil gets in and no evil gets out. The kings however accidentally get trapped inside. Because this takes place centuries before (in the past), our main hero's fam and the rest of the world thinks these kings are 'gods' and they to return. Why do they need to return? It's not really explained. What does the world gain if they returned? Not really explained either? What is the point of these kings? We don't know. BUT: People remember them... there is a strange religious cult that worships these kings? ... Why does this cult exist if we don't know what the point of these kings returning will do? We can go round and round about all this. The literal bones, the point of the story, is sacrificed for the plain, boring, love story.The second daughter gets sacrificed, meets 'The Wolf', finds out its a human boy who has nothing to do with the kings (as she was mislead all these years). She stays because she wants the kings to return and she wants to return home. So, she decides to help Eammon) to harness magic to restore the balance and get the kings to escape. Cue PAGES, CHAPTERS, ENDLESS and pointless bickering about staying put and not helping, to helping and getting hurt, healing and falling in love, to repeating the same process... over and over again. Again I ask: what is the point behind these kings? What is the point of them having magic? Why do they have magic? What are they supposed to do? We don't know! Do we ever see the kings? Well, we see one of them? Do we ever find out more about the crazy religious cult? Yes and no. I'm just so frustrated with this book because you have a really interesting twist on the Red-Riding Hood story, or Beauty and the Beast?... but you get this half baked world with half baked lore and confusing magic.Okay. Lets talk about the magic. Lets talk about how I didn't understand why there was such a struggle and why in the world there was some kind of fear of allowing the magic to change them (Red and Eammon) and or ride it's course. Clearly I saw through the whole story that if they both split the magic that's what the wood seemed to want and they were going to be okay. But, the previous centuries of girls I guess didn't split the magic or try to split the magic (or marry the Wolf) so they died and their bones rotted in the forest. I still don't understand the whole blood sacrifice and what not going on.It's just a lot going on in this story that is plodded for the sake of romance. You could cut out a lot and you would miss nothing. There was a whole segment about going into town that honestly could have happened anywhere else or to anyone else, but it was put in there for the sake of showing that there was other people trapped in the woods with them but hey, they're pretty cool with it and made their own little city. (As one of the comments pointed out, this community would have inbred people...)Into the Woods, out of the Woods, home before dark... I just kept singing Into the Woods in my head but the lyrics to the Forbidden Broadway version popped in there. At least Into the Woods had a stronger story that dealt with the consequences of wishing and the darker side of fairy-tales. Just be pretty careful jumping into this book. If you're coming for a broody dumb emo boy, you got it, tons of it. If you're coming for a plot? No, you don't got that.