I hate saying this but the movie is legitimately better. This book at times felt like an odd first draft of my favorite movie to me—quotes that I loved in the movie are somehow delivered in a manner that is rather oddly unfunny. I think this might be a case of the movie ruining it a bit for me... but also, I doubt I would've ever loved the movie as much if I had read this first. I read this from someone who’s read the book before: do not read the 20th-anniversary introduction. As someone who read it unwittingly I can confirm it’s fifty pages long and not good. Also, and I wish I had something better to say about this--the framing device is so obsessed with the fact that his son is fat and it gets really distasteful. It’s not even funny in the first place. I feel the same way about the Buttercup's Baby outro, which just felt like it ruined my childhood a bit (it kills off a character? I think temporarily? But it still kills off a character? It's also just still not funny?)I genuinely think without the intro and outro making me feel like I wanted to kill William Goldman I probably would've liked this a lot more. As it was, they just made me feel a weird sort of animosity towards the author, not for ruining his book but for thinking he's funny enough for me to read a 50-page backstory about him finding this book and reading to his son (who is fat, I don't know if you heard. did you know that?).Here are some things I did enjoy about this book:→The timeless feeling to the story→The feeling of the story within a story, the edited version of an obsessed-with-beauty fairy tale, is fun→Inigo Montoya you killed my father prepare to die is still iconic→Fezzik’s backstory!! I liked that a lot!!→Westley is way more useless at the beginning of this book and I thought that was funny→Humperdink is a little different from the movie but equally amusing→Buttercup has some character development! Not a lot but some fun stuff!→I love you so much more now than twenty minutes ago that there cannot be comparison. I love you so much more now than when you opened your hovel door, there cannot be comparison. There is no room in my body for anything but you. My arms love you, my ears adore you, my knees shake with blind affection. My mind begs you to ask it something so it can obey.I have mixed feelings on this and I really wish I hadn't read the intro now.Blog | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | Youtube | About |