To help recuperate the sick child (Author William Goldman), the old father reads out the story of “The Princess Bride” by S. Morgenstern to him. Years later, obsessed with the book, determined to procure a copy of it, extensively rummaging through bookshops, William Goldman finally ends up finding an ancient copy of it.He eventually realizes that his father read out only the “good parts of the story”, and resorts to opting for the fictional route of writing the abridged story of “The Princess Bride”.  Well going through the extended introduction was wee tedious and boring for me, so I skimmed through it. I was assiduously seeking to whet my appetite for fantasy by seizing the main adventure story of Buttercup and not the story of the rhyme and reason for abridgment by the author. Additionally, the author kept barging with his POV throughout the story, giving a feel of a book within a book, which kept distracting me from my dreamland sporadically, which I didn’t hold in high regard. So, docked 1.5 stars! The main plot summary of the adventure story (without spoilers)-Not considering herself as one of the most beautiful females, Buttercup, is sluggish to comb her hair and isn’t concerned about her image. This comes across as her most salient feature as she is not proud and haughty about her beauty like most of the other females. In short, she wears the image of a tomboy. No matter what Buttercup commands the Farm Boy, Westley, to do, he simply answers, "As you wish." Buttercup develops feelings for him and eventually, both are in love in no time. Both are extremely simple, and the love that bridges the two is based on the purest of intentions and not on money or beauty! Westley leaves on a quest to seek better fortune, while promising Buttercup of his return to marry her.Buttercup swears to be faithful but is devastated to learn that Wesley's ship has been attacked by the infamous Dread Pirate Roberts, who presumes him dead. After 5 years, she agrees to marry Prince Humperdinck even though she still loves Wesley. Prince Humperdinck is the inverse of Buttercup and Westley. He is arrogant and narcissistic.  Concerned with appearances, Buttercup is just a mere possession for him!Before the wedding, Buttercup is kidnaped by three bandits- a Sicilian boss named Vizzini, a giant named Fezzik, and a Spanish swordsman named Inigo who is seeking to avenge his father's murder, what follows ahead is a fast-paced thrilling adventure. Read it for yourself and explore!  😊 I agree with William’s father's decision to close the book on a “happily ever after”, by offering a conclusive rest to the readers after traversing through an action-packed adventure! The story professes the power of love that is pure, honest and true, untouched with malice and is unadulterated.  Despite many years apart, Buttercup and Westley remain connected through the bonds of love. Even death cannot separate those who experience true love!  I would have given 5-stars to this adventure laden taut fairy-tale story but docked 1.5 stars due to the intermittent sporadic appearance of the parallel pragmatic story by Willian Goldman and his POV, which muted my fantasy-reading experience.The characters are well-fleshed out and are bound to stay with the readers for a long time! An adventure and action-packed 3.5 stars drizzled to this wonderful story inundated with the power of true love and innocence, which starts with “as you wish” and closes with “so do I” 😊  NB-I haven’t watched the movie adaptation of “The Princess Bride” and have only read the book, so not aware of the differences in the execution of the plot-line! The exposition of the theme of the trials and tribulations of true love came as a welcome lull for me. Buttercup and Westley proved that love is not idealized, but is lasting. Buttercup never ceases to love Westley even while fearing him dead and even though she bickers with him after finding out he is alive. Westley stays loyal to Buttercup throughout! Their love for each other was overtly-cute!