“‘Look: we can’t go back and we certainly don’t want to stay here, so we must keep on going as we were before these little things happened. Down. Down is our direction, Fezzik, but I can tell you’re a bit edgy about all this, so, out of the goodness of my heart, I will let you walk down not behind me, and not in front of me, but right next to me, on the same step, stride for stride, and you put an arm around my shoulder because this will probably make you feel better, and I, so as not to make you feel foolish, will put an arm around your shoulder, and thus, safe, protected, together, we will descend.’ ‘Will you draw your sword with your free hand?’ [Fezzik asked].‘I already have. Will you make a fist with yours?’‘It’s clenched.’‘Then let's look on the bright side: we're having an adventure, Fezzik, and most people live and die without being as lucky as we are.’”-	William Goldman, The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern’s Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure The first time I sat down to watch to Rob Reiner’s 1987 film classic The Princess Bride, it was introduced to me with the sort of hushed awe usually reserved for biblical prophets receiving stone tablets. You have to watch this, I was told. You have to. The experience was, in a word, mesmerizing. I was far too young to catch all the sly nuances in a movie that both precisely deconstructs and joyously celebrates the fantasy-adventure genre, but I loved it nonetheless. The broadness of the comedy. The snappiness of its action scenes. The climbing-race up the Cliffs of Insanity. The “I am not lefthanded” swordfight. The fire swamp, the rodents of unusual size, “I am Inigo Montoya,” and freaking Andre the Giant. All of it landed perfectly.Watch it only once? Inconceivable!I’ve seen the movie dozens and dozens of times over the years. In the basement of friends; on my couch in the morning; in college dorm rooms; in the theater; drunk and hungover and sober; on my couch in the afternoon; with my kids; with extended family; on holidays; and on my couch late at night. It is endlessly rewatchable, and whenever I catch it, I usually sit down until it gets to one of my five or six or seven favorite scenes. For all the glee I’ve taken in Cary Elwes’ smirk, and Christopher Guest’s six-fingered man, and Billy Crystal’s zany miracle worker, it probably took me ten or fifteen years to realize that the film was based on William Goldman’s 1973 novel of the same name. It had never occurred to me that something so purely cinematic started off on the page. As a completist, I had to read it. But once I got it, I delayed, and let it linger on the shelf. The film, after all, is nearly perfect, at least in the sense that I couldn’t imagine changing a single scene. What, exactly, could the book add to my experience? Honestly, not that much. The Princess Bride is a good book by a great writer, and it has its share of mic-drop lines. But at the end of the day, I mostly read it for comparison’s sake. ***  Like the movie, the novel has its tongue firmly planted in-cheek. The conceit of The Princess Bride is that it is actually an abridgement of a much-longer book by the impeccably-named S. Morgenstern. Goldman – playing the role of “Goldman” – writes the introduction, and also provides a running commentary throughout. He plays this joke right to the end, and my 25th anniversary edition has an epilogue that acts as an excerpt to a sequel that – unfortunately – never got written. *** Given its ubiquity, it seems a waste of space to set out the plot. But wasting space is what I do. In short, it is the tale of Westley, the farm boy who loves Buttercup; and of Inigo, the Spanish sword master sworn to wreak vengeance on the evil Count Rugen; and of Vizzini, the clever Sicilian plotting war; and of Fezzik, the gentle, slow-witted giant. All of them are thrown together by fate, as Westley tries to keep his beloved from marrying the evil Prince Humperdinck. The best description – unsurprisingly – comes from Goldman himself: Fencing. Fighting. Torture. Poison. True love. Hate. Revenge. Giants. Hunters. Bad men. Good men. Beautifulest ladies. Snakes. Spiders. Beasts of all natures and descriptions. Pain. Death. Brave men. Coward men. Strongest men. Chases. Escapes. Lies. Truths. Passions. Miracles. If this doesn’t sell you on it, what more can I say? ***Goldman, who died in 2018, had one heck of a career, especially in the realm of screenplays. Both Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and All the President’s Men are widely recognized for the skill of the wordsmithing, with lines so well-crafted they’ve become part of the culture at large. Even his lesser-tier films, such as the Stephen King adaptation Hearts in Atlantis, contain lines that belong inimitably to him. In The Princess Bride, Goldman does a nifty balancing act, shifting between the broad and the narrowly-focused, from silly humor to deep emotion. All the famous movie scenes are here, such as the “Battle of Wits,” where the world learned one of life’s important lessons: “Never go in against a Sicilian when death is on the line.” But there are also scenes excised from the film, such as the strangely heartfelt sequence where Inigo and Fezzik venture into the Zoo of Death. ***Having marinated in the film for so long, reading the book-version of The Princess Bride felt a bit academic. I did not read with any sense of wonder at what might come; I knew exactly – for the most part – what lay ahead. Instead, I read it mostly to see what got left out, what got changed, and how well Goldman made the transition from words to moving pictures. One of the great nothing-arguments of our time on earth is the debate over which is better: the book or the movie. It’s a wholly subjective query that is treated in an entirely objective manner, as though it’s a mathematical equation with a single right answer. People get really heated about it. Generally speaking, I’m more of a book guy, because I like the expansiveness and depth of a novel as opposed to the streamlining of a commercial film. But there are some major exceptions, usually when a so-so piece of fiction gets picked up by a really talented filmmaker. The best example I can think of is Jaws, which is an all-time movie sharply excised from a plodding, weirdly-paced aquatic potboiler, which has one of the cringiest sex scenes I’ve ever had the dubious honor of reading. In the case of The Princess Bride, the movie is clearly superior to me, if only because I fell in love with it first. It is impossible, at this point, to absorb Goldman’s lines without hearing them read aloud by Mandy Patinkin or Wallace Shawn. The book ain’t half bad; it just so happens that the movie is twice as good as just about anything else you can watch.