Deep personal pain is a lonely affair. It may be the loneliest condition a person can experience. Our respective traumas, varying in degree and kind, are all highly idiosyncratic. No one can experience it for us, or truly with us. There exists a gulf between humans that is unbridgeable. I’m sure everyone of you has seen it open up between you and a loved one when a bit of bad news breaks. When the sick and grieving reach out to you from the plateaus of their unique circumstances and want, more than anything, for you to fully understand and sympathize. And although your attempts to reach across are often enough to help that person endure, you know that your empathy is limited (perhaps for sound reasons) and you cannot take their burdens on for them. That’s why I find it so remarkable when a book appears which circumvents these limitations and speaks to you directly with all the requisite nuance to convince you that you are not actually alone. That, somehow, this author knows you as if they’d worn your own skin, their brains lit by coruscating constellations of thought which perfectly mirror your private reflections. It is no exaggeration to say that, for some of us, this astonishing empathy technology is what allows us to continue living. This book is an ode to that unique power, and will speak directly to anyone whose love of the written word has seen them through life’s upheavals. For those of you who also grew up consuming (in my case, my grandad (and father’s) formidable library of Golden and New Age speculative classics) dog-eared science fiction like delectable, and highly uniform fructose exclamatory phonetics punctuated by colorful buoys of marshmallow, you will experience increased metabolic activity in several regions of the brain, particularly the frontal, limbic, paralimbic, and midbrain areas, which is to say; enter a state colloquially known as “nostalgic as fuck”. Morwenna, the feature character in this coming of age tale, (and impressively rendered thought doppelgänger who I found synchronously vibrating to the tune of bibliophilic reverence), writes in intimate diary style of her travails as a young, weird, fiercely intelligent girl having to struggle with her estranged and alien family, her physical disability, the trauma of severe loss, and the howling menagerie of adolescent bugbears which make our emotions serpentine in the manner of (borrowing from the series Archer in which Babou, surrealist painter Salvador Dali’s pet ocelot, is being pursued by Canadian Mounties and continues to evade their shots with preternatural zigzagging) a crepuscular piss-cat. Throughout the tale (which, is partly a vehicle for Walton’s autobiographical sketches, part fantasy in which the fairy tale elements could be real or could be the product of a damaged psyche trying to process trauma (this question is never resolved fully), sublimated in the aludel of boarding school induced self synthesis) Morwenna waxes profusely (and damn beautifully) about her love of books and their ability to propel one forward despite physical reality’s rather obdurate and unassailable position as supreme itinerant blighter. Her opinions on prominent works in the genre are an absolute delight to read.This is a love letter to science fiction and fantasy and its importance in people’s lives. (that’s right you pitiable creatures who eschew the fantastical and speculative in order to reach for yet another ‘serious’ work of navel gazing literary fiction, replete with clichés of suburban housewives and their criminally boring ennui, trying to find purchase on your neck with every shovel full of pages you relieve from their wretched graves, revealing bit by bit the haggard zombie at bottom with it’s clawed hands yearning to grip and wring all the excitement out of your body until you’re a desiccated washcloth unable to reabsorb enough thrills to properly participate in showerly exfoliation!) Chances are that you’ve read quite a few of them yourself and will enjoy the insightful trips down memory lane when they’re discussed in Mori’s SF club.A curious comparison occurred to be the other day. After talking to someone about the people of Annares building a habitable community on a barren moon in The Dispossessed by Ursula Le Guin, I thought of the a quote (of limited scientific credibility) which says that the person you are is a composite of your five closest friends, owing to the sociability of a species and our desire to belong. It seemed more accurate, in the case of avid readers, to say that we are a mélange of our favorite characters, a medley of the seemingly limitless conceptual landscapes we’ve traversed and the topological novelties we’ve encountered therein. Those of us with access to libraries and online resources are able to converse with the greatest minds in history on any topic which piques our interest and inhabit perspectives which align or depart from our own across the intellectual spectrum. We gain fluency in imaginary worlds and peoples and see the outcomes of large scale social experiments. We bear witness to the power of unrealized technologies which reshape or destroy us. We watch civilizations rise and fall and individuals of infinitely diverse backgrounds live and die. Joe Walton’s Among Others is a wonderful celebration of this unique gift.