"Which was worse? To feel nothing, or to grieve for something you no longer remembered? Surely when you forgot, you’d forget to be sad, or what was the point? And yet that numbness would take part of your self away..."There are times in life we all go through painful things, things we wish hadn't happened, and which make us sad and anxious, or worse, to remember. What if you could have those memories removed? What if you could choose what you remember, to keep the good and get rid of the bad? In The Binding, we enter a world where such things are possible. Binders are those with the gift to be able to extract peoples' memories and place them within a book. It is impossible for the person to ever again remember these things; indeed, they cannot even hear someone talk about them. The only way in which to remember is if the book is destroyed. As you can imagine, there are people who will pay a lot of money to read someone's dirty secrets, to dive into their darkest memories, to immerse themselves into someone else's pain and heartache. Thus, it is illegal to sell or give away books whilst a person is living, though it does happen. There are also trade books which are made up stories, and educational books where a scholar, at the end of her/his life, will impart their knowledge into a book.Emmett Farmer is a binder's apprentice, and this is his story. It is also the story of a rich young man whose path crosses Emmett's several times, though neither of them remember. To say more I would need a spoiler alert and so, rather than trying to entice you to read the book by giving away the story, I will suggest you pick up the book instead. This is a fantastic story, imagining the depths we will go to escape our pain, and what the results would be if we removed all the negative memories from our minds. Would you still be you without your memories? Would you feel as though a part of you was missing? Would you be less of a person because part of your life has disappeared? Bridget Collins has created a mesmerizing story; I found myself immediately drawn into it. The characters are so real. There is hope and dreams, avarice and pain, drama and mystery, and characters who wish to do good and ones who delight in harming others. I loved this book and highly recommend it.