I wanted to love this book SO BADLY. I'd gone in expecting to be gushing its praises by the end of it- I mean, a book about fae from the Queen of Fae?? SIGN ME UPBut this ended up being quite... underwhelming.“I like all the things that make you monstrous.”In Valiant, we follow 17-year-old Valerie Russel, who has run away to New York after a personal betrayal. She ends up living with a group of other homeless people in an abandoned subway tunnel, trying to forget her past. However, there's something strange about the people she's with- Luis serves a mysterious master, Dave does deliveries to inhuman creatures and Lolli takes a mysterious drug that couldn't have been created by humans. This all leads Val to discovering the existence of fairies and all the strange and mysterious things about them. I think I made the same mistake as everyone else who didn't like this book- I went in expecting something like the Cruel Prince. The Cruel Prince was AMAZING- full of scheming, betrayal, romance and all of this in a great world. I was kinda expecting Valiant to be something similar, with that same feeling about it that made me want to devour TCP in one sitting. But although I can see some similarities, there just aren't enough to make me like the book, unfortunately.Let's start with the characters. Our protagonist is Val, who is very tomboyish, independent and definitely quite troubled. Tbh Val wasn't my favorite character- I mean, she wasn't BAD, but I just never really connected with her. I feel like she wasn't fleshed out enough for my liking and instead felt quite... 1-dimensional. Honestly, a little more development in her would've been nice.Next, Ravus. Ravus is the main love interest and the 'Beast' to Val's beauty. He's a troll and supposed to be this scary monster that everyone hates, which is why the book is considered a Beauty & the Beast retelling. Ravus is an interesting character, because I have very mixed feelings about him- on one hand, I do think there was quite a bit of development in him throughout the story, which was nice, and I also just genuinely liked him. He would definitely be considered a cinnamon roll, with his intimidating exterior, but a very soft and loving heart underneath. However, one thing that bothered me a bit was that he was supposed to be a very scary troll but he just wasn't.... scary. Okay, the first scene we had with him was pretty intimidating, I'll admit, but after that, he didn't really seem like a monster imo. So, yeah, I liked him, but I do wish he would've seemed like more of a 'monster' for a bigger part of the book.We also have quite a few side characters- like Dave, Luis and Lolli, the other squatters, and Ruth, Val's best friend from home. I did think most of them were interesting and Ruth was pretty cool. I liked how supportive she was to Val- she just seemed like a great person. Both Luis and Dave were very intriguing characters, as their motivations were quite grey at times, Dave especially. So that was a nice touch. But the one person I just HATED was Lolli. She was just giving me a bad feeling for the first part of the book and something about her was just creeping me out for some reason, but then there was this one scene... I honestly just wanted to throw the book at the wall at that part. ANIMAL CRUELTY IS NOT OKAY!! Why was this not addressed at all in the book???!!!Anywayy, moving onto the plot. The plot was okay but I do think it could've done with a bit of editing. The book was INCREDIBLY slow for having only 320 pages and the first 3/4 felt like there was nothing happening. Like, I couldn't see any direction to the story at all. It did get better in the last 100 pages, where there was actually some really interesting stuff happening, so I did enjoy that. And the ending was so sweet!! I loved the hopeful note it left us on. I do also think the representation on drug/alcohol addiction was really powerful and I'm glad Holly Black decided to include it. It was definitely eye-opening for me. Overall, the plot did get better as the story progressed but I do wish that long part had been cut down a bit.The writing was probably the best part of the book for me- although it wasn't nearly as polished as in TCP, it still had that really engaging quality that kept me reading, even during the boring parts. I can definitely see growth between this and TCP but I did still like the writing in this. It was pretty good!Lastly, the romance. Tbh I have mixed feelings about the romance. To me, it felt a little instalovey- because there was so little of it for most of the book, it kinda came out of nowhere. And yet, it was also really sweet, especially near the end. So, not sure what to think... In the end, I think I'm not a hardcore Val X Ravus shipper but it was still cute 😊“You carried my heart in your hands tonight," he said. "But I have felt as if you carried it long before that.”Overall, this was decent but not amazing. If you're looking to read something by Holly Black, I'd definitely direct you to TCP instead, but this was still not that bad. Okay overall.~ 3 stars~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mmmmm. Very mixed feelings about this 😕😕 I'll share some thoughts when I've had a bit of time to think over it 🙂