“Don’t make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.”Sixteen-year-old Bree Matthews is grieving for the loss of her mother, when she enrolls in a college program for intelligent high schoolers. On her first night on campus Bree witnesses a magical assault, causing her to question whether her mother’s death was in truth an accident. A failed attempt to erase her memory of this night causes Bree’s own unique magic and memories that have previously been altered with to become uncovered. Bree will do whatever it takes to reveal the truth, even infiltrating those who are responsible for the erasing of her memory – the Legendborn. How far is Bree willing to go to uncover the truth about her mother’s mysterious death and is she willing to join the fight of a magical war? Legendborn is undoubtedly my favourite read of the year so far. Tracy Deonn certainly deserves recognition and acclaim for this refreshing perspective on urban fantasy. Tracy Deonn’s debut book has generated an enchanting, contemporary world that I lost myself in. The outstanding first book of the series was a breath of fresh air, with the originality and uniqueness of the plot and the world that came with it. Tracy Deonn did a formidable job of representing diversity throughout the book, incorporating and raising awareness of crucial issues of modern-day society throughout. Tracy Deonn accomplishes the complex and intricate world building centred around the past time tales of King Arthur. Grief, power and self-discovery, critical concepts of the plot, are portrayed realistically and admirably. I can wholeheartedly say that this book kept me anticipating what was to come and therefore kept me turning the pages. Do not get me started on the diverse range of characters in this book. I could write a whole essay on the faultless description and character development of those in this book, but I will allow you to discover the love for these characters yourself. I'll allow you the privilege of discovering Bree Matthews for yourself, because she is what I envision for a protagonist I want to fall in love with. I am also now a certified fan-girl for both Nick and Sel. Putting the main protagonists aside, the creation of the supporting characters makes you fall in love with their attributes as much as the main characters. Which is precisely what I require from a novel. It is difficult to comprehend that this is Tracy Deonn's debut novel and I cannot wait (even though I'll have to) for the second book in the series. I will reiterate once again that this is my favourite read of the year so far and implore you at whatever cost to read Legendborn.Overall rating: 5 stars⭐