Reread October 2022: still as incredible as the first time around, and more than ready for Bloodmarked!I'm kicking myself for not being better about bookmarking quotes I'd like to use in reviews while listening to audio, because this story has many sections that are worthy of remembering. After seeing so many raving reviews about this book, I was eager to jump in, and after waiting for what felt like ages, my audiobook hold from the library came in. It was the absolute perfect timing in listening to this book, and if the second were already released, I would have jumped straight into that one as well. I can't get enough of this world that Tracy Deonn has created!I'm not typically a big reader of Arthurian retellings, but this is by far the best one I've come across. Think of it as part urban fantasy, part murder mystery, with a dash of romance (and possibly a light love triangle in the next book?) Heavy themes of racism, both overt and microaggressions alike, are touched on and might be disturbing to some readers, but their inclusion is necessary to the plot line and I felt tied in so well with the overarching message of the story. Also, topics of grief, family, and generational trauma are spoken on as well, and once we see how all of these things tie together, it makes a profound statement as to where I see the next book taking us.But wait! Please don't let the heaviness of that paragraph make it sound like this book is just doom and gloom. There is so much joy to be seen here. Young, budding love, the loyalty of childhood friends, strong paternal/daughterly bonds: it's all here. I adored seeing Bree come into her own and discover not only who she is in the Legendborn world, but as a daughter, friend, and young Black woman. I love when we get the opportunity to watch our main characters grow, especially when they don't start out these hardened, totally strong characters, but have to come into that. Also, I'm going to need more Bree + Sel, please and thank you. Gah, this book was a fresh breath of air in a saturated genre, and I am here for it!