“Don't make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.”  “The most important thing you can do in this world, the most necessary thing, is to survive it. You can't do anything for anyone else if you don't take care of yourself first.”  rating - 3.75 stars✨✨  Legend Born  is the first book in a fantasy series that has come out last year by author Tracy Deonn. This book is definitely something else. It is a diverse urban fantasy story inspired by something I had 0 clue off Merlin and King Arthur and his thirteen knights. It involves a secret society of people with powers that are from this line called legendborns that has a lot of history in it. It follows a black 16 year old main character that deals with racism , grief from the death of her mother recently and mental illnesses caused my grieve PTSD and upcoming PCBD. She comes across a accident that brings her to this magical order and then things happen and she believes her mothers death might not be an accident and might be involved with this order of legendborns that hunt shadowborns [ aka demons that come to earth to make chaos ] It also has several Bi and Gay reps in the story and history of black people. So quite a lot of cool things....Things krizzie loves about this book Worldbuilding & magic –  The worldbuilding and magic in this book are really freaking cool. They are definitely super complex and my peanut brain could not handle it at times sometimes had to read certain pages more then 3 times and still did not understand which is a little bit downside but once the story progresses even tho the magic Is confusing because it is a lot , it is super cool with lots of different powers and lots of history and things that are coming together in the story. It has no info dump which was in this case both really great because it wasn’t boring but also a little confusing sometimes to keep up because everything in the world happened fast and vague. Overall the world and magic is really cool and I did love it besides having a peanut brain. The plot – The plot is so good. Bree is dealing with grieve from her mothers death and is in the middle of progressing that and hurting because of it when she comes upon the order and thinks her mothers death might be connected to this which is becoming like a puzzle we are finding out with her as we also find out the order with her as she joins to have a position in the order to find out about her mother so she goes to a competition with trials. Its character driven and plot driven and I really enjoyed the plot. There where somany twistst and it felt like a big puzzle that I needed to figure out with my peanut brain but I really enjoyed the plot. Its coooool and I n t r e s t I n g. The charracters – I enjoyed Bree as a main character and I especially enjoyed how the author handled grieve and mental illness in this story and her charracter. I love fantasy stories with charracters in it that deal with mental illness that’s krizzies perfect combination. We see bree struggle with grieve and its ugly and that’s what grieve is and I could relate to her. She deals with PTSD from her mothers death and panic attacks. She also talks with a therapist during this book which I liked that diagnosed her with upcoming PCBD. the author also experienced these mentall illnesses she said so you could really feel like the author knew what she had written. Bree is also badass which I liked and not whiny and stupid. I liked the topic of racism in her character and in this book in general it’s a good thing in a book to make people a w a r e. It does have really strong chosen one special snowflake vibes but I didn’t really mind it I do have to say I usually don’t mind that trope that much. I also enjoyed Sel a lot who is my kinda guy. Dark hair , part demon , dark , sarcastic , broken. Yes sign me up please. I need more of him right now , thankyou. Things krizzie didn’t love The romance INSTA LOVE ALERT EW– The romance is between Bree and The son of the ruler of the legend born secret society who is very much a standard golden boy. Boring. And there love is very insta love. They basically are in love and love eachother all of the sudden in two days. I really hated this and could not connect to the romance of them at all. It was so forced. I hate insta love. I also feel a love triangle coming which I don’t like. With sel and bree also becoming a thing maybe. I do like those two there is more chemistry there and no insta love barving shit. So yeah the romance in this book isn’t my thing at all. Because puky insta love. Nick , side charracters– the goldedboy character , I coudnt connect and I think he is very standard. There where a cast of cool side character but I feel like we don’t get enough information to them and I need more of that , that could have been done better.Overall I struggeled a bit with the beginning and world of the book but ended up really enjoying the magic and worldbuilding as it is freaking amazing , I love the plot and the puzzle , the dealings with mentall illness and the diversity of this book I love , the main character is great and diverse and not standard besides being the chosen one. What I didn’t like was the insta love and some typical basic character * nick * * cough * but overall I enjoyed this book and I am excited for the second. I would reccoment if you want a diverse fantasy , the insta love does suck but the rest is good so I can live with it if it gets solved and drowned quickly.Krizzie out ,bye ; )  also I need more sel