Legendborn was a pleasant surprise! It should get nominated for GR’s award of 2020’s best debut at the very least. It reimagines the Arthurian Legend in a completely new way. You see, the knights of the round table were stronger than your usual knight. They fought demons or rather “Shadowborns” and kept them at bay saving humans from them. Their descendants, the Legendborn, inherited their power and they’re still hunting demons centuries later. Our main character, Bree, ends up getting involved with this secret society. When she decided to attend Carolina’s Early College, she didn’t expect her life to be changed forever. She had witnessed supernatural events and believed her mother's death accident wasn’t just an accident. She ended up finding a lot more about her dead mother, family history, and of course, the knights and King Arthur.I liked Bree, she’s a complex main character, strong-willed, and doesn’t back down. She also doesn’t takes shit from anybody. The secondary characters were at the very least two dimensional. Nick was so sweet and I don’t want anybody to hurt him but at the same time, he was spoiled a bit. There’s no “perfect” character. They had their shortcomings but they also kicked ass. I cared about many of them especially Sel and Bree’s dad. I also loved how this book handled racism and inequality issues. Bree faced any discrimination she faced and spoke out, putting people in their place. My favorite thing about this book is probably the last revelation and plot twist, it was very powerful and satisfying in a you-had-that-coming kind of way.If you want diversity? This book is for you. Alice, the best friend is a lesbian. We also had gays, bis, etc. And of course, the main character is a black girl. I usually feel pressure when I’m reading a very diverse book, advertised mostly because of its diversity, what if I didn’t like it? Will people say I’m racist, or whatever? Although I learned to not overthink it anymore, after all, I disliked so many books with white MCs too, I still feel weird like for not liking COBAB. However, I absolutely enjoyed this book and loved many of its characters. It had all the elements I want in a YA:-complex heroine who isn’t annoying nor acts stupid and helpless-fast paced plot-interesting story-imaginative world-building-cute and likable love interest-enjoyable secondary characters-unpredictableSadly, this book had a few weaknesses.The events of this book were set into motion before it started so this book was pretty fast-paced. Although it was over 500 pages, don’t worry. You won’t get bored, if anything you’d need to catch up. It took me a bit to absorb all of the Legendborn history and hierarchy. Which is okay, I’m not a passive reader so I do like to figure things out and analyze the structure of, for example, the knights of the round table secret society. But what I didn’t like was the fact that we had so many coincidences and conveniences. Some events were never explained/tackled and some events were just too convenient. All books have such occurrences but it was overdone here. SO much happened during 3 weeks. It was also rushed in some parts. Half of the book happens in the first week of school. I wish we had more build-up. Bree could’ve come early for example to settle in and such. The demons could’ve taken a bit longer to start showing up. Bree could’ve practiced for a longer time. We can see why Alice and Bree are best friends instead of being told about it.Which brings me to my other point. The other thing that I wasn’t a big fan of was Bree and Alice’s fight at the start, it felt useless especially since it was the first of what we saw of Alice. Again, I think them having a fight at that point and Alice ratting her to her father was convenient. She was her best friend for 8 years and that’s how she behave knowing Bree is going through a tough time? I didn’t believe Alice wasn’t good for a second, it was more like the author needing to behave this way to generate particular actions that lead to specific important events. I wish Deonn relied more on logic even if the book had to be longer.At one time, Bree met three women, she knew who their BOYS are because well, genes. She rightly guesses the THREE boys (and not girls, would’ve been more logical if it was the latter since daughters look more like mothers than sons like mothers…), again, it’s not possible. There are some instances when I didn’t like how Bree behaved and at one point what she did was unbelievable beating two guys who have trained their whole lives just after training for 5 days? She never even lost the first fight but accidentally stepped out of the arena… ridiculousI hate love triangles. If I know a book has a love triangle, I rarely bother with it anymore. We had one here. I think the romance between Bree and Nick was WAY TOO RUSHED. We could’ve done without it. I understand why they feel a connection and it makes total sense but I didn’t like how even the romance progressed too fast. As for the other guy, we only had electricity, and you how touching is described in a book, there wasn’t any affirmation of their feelings but it was hinted. I hope it doesn’t progress into a full triangle and in this case a love triangle from several sides… Other than that, I really had fun reading this book. It was a solid debut but it had its shortcomings. I quite liked Deonn’s reimagination of the Arthurian Legend, it was innovative. The characters were also well developed and I’m already looking forward to reading the second book.