I desperately want to be able to yell at someone, ‘Why didn’t you tell me to read this earlier????’ But the truth is that basically everyone told me to read Legendborn before I eventually did, so I have nobody to blame but myself.For Briana Matthews, a lot of things seem to come easily. She’s an excellent student, accepted to University of North Carolina’s Early College program at 16. She’s close with her parents and her best friend Alice, who is joining her at school. But what Bree could never have prepared for was her mother’s sudden death right before she left for Chapel Hill. Lost in her grief and uncertain where her path at UNC will take her, Bree finds herself pulled into a secret society with members who call themselves “Legendborn”. The mysteries of this group appear to have some connection with her mother’s death, so Bree dives head-first into an organization that makes very clear it was not made for her.I don’t typically gravitate towards contemporary fantasies, even though I’ve enjoyed a number of them. But I truly believe that anyone, from someone that’s fantasy-hesitant to those fully entrenched in otherworldly magic and lore, will be able to enjoy their time with Legendborn. Without getting too much into the trenches, the Legendborn draw on the numerous tales of Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table. Taking the role of righteous wielders of their ancestors’ magic, Legendborn aim to protect the public from dark forces that wish to do their world harm. It’s a really compelling blend of mythology, fantasy, academia and hero’s journey that had me completely invested from the get-go.Bree is an absolute force, imperfect in her coping but full of strength and grit. The way her character reckons with not just a erratic power burning within her, but the open and veiled hostility of some of the members of this almost entirely white society is a masterful act in balancing by Tracy Deonn. Bree has been brought into an institution within an institution, ones that exploited her ancestors to build their own legacies. And many of their descendants seem more than happy to keep those inherited hierarchies as-is.So much of the focus of this story is on power. The literal powers that members possess, the institutional power that is passed down and the power inherent in every human being. I loved learning about the legends of these long-dead knights just as much as the hidden histories of the men, women and children who built UNC. One of the most impressive things about Deonn’s writing here is that she has so many balls going up in the air at one time, but nothing is ever rushed or dragging. The pacing is near perfect, and I flew through this 500 page full-sized chonker pretty quickly.Obviously there’s a lot more to this book than magic power and evil demons, but don’t let that lead you to believe that this is anything less than an incredible fantasy novel. There’s action, adventure, some romance and a constant testing of loyalties culminating in an epic clash between two opposing forces. I was on the edge of my seat the entire time, completely caught off guard at several points, even if I felt like I knew the direction the author was taking. I know it’s only August, but I think I can say this is the best fantasy book I’ve read so far this year. An easy recommendation to anyone who asks, and even some who don’t. And now I have to wait until 2022 for the sequel???? Ugh, I die.*Thanks Madison and Paige for sending me this for my birthday!!**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!