“Don’t make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.”~Rating- 1.25 stars~(Content/ Trigger Warnings)-Mention of most of these in the review-Legendborn, by Tracy Deonn is the first book in the Legendborn series. This was a book I was hoping to enjoy and adore due to all the hype, but sadly I did not like it and was disappointed. Before I explain why I disliked the book, I wanted to emphasize what I loved. I loved the portrayal of grief with the main character Bree and the representation in the book. Bree was a very compelling main character to read about. I also loved the writing style, and I have an entire google doc full of annotated notes. However as a whole, I did not like this book and I want to talk about why. I understand why this is so well loved, but this is my personal opinion so please do not hate on me for it."Some truths only tragedy can teach. The first one I learned is that when people acknowledge your pain, they want your pain to acknowledge them back. They need to witness it in real time, or else you’re not doing your part."Bree Matthews is grieving the death of her mother and wants nothing to do with her family memories or childhood home. A residential program for bright high schoolers at UNC–Chapel Hill is the perfect escape for Bree, until she witnesses a magical attack on her very first night at the campus. When a Merlin tries to erase Bree's memories of the night, it somehow doesn't work.“Typical anger can hinder or help. But the kind that burns in your gut? That’s fury. And fury is meant to be used.”Bree discovers that there is a secret society called Legendborn, which contains students who hunt demons down. Soon Bree recalls some of her memories regarding her mothers death were erased, and she suspects her mothers death was more than just a car accident. Bree aims at finding the truth about her mothers death, and when the Legendborn reveal themselves as the descendants of King Arthur’s knights and explain that a magical war is coming, Bree has to decide how far she’ll go for the truth and whether she should use her magic to take the society down—or join the fight.“I’m a daughter whose mother was taken from her.Acceptance, I decide, is for people whose parents just died with no reason. True accidents or illness. Acceptance is not possible for murder.”The plot of the book is alright. My e-copy consisted of 630 pages (I could not find that edition) and it took around 250 pages for what was mentioned in the blurb to actually start happening. In fact, I'd consider the blurb and my plot summary to be a minor spoiler because of this, but there wasn't another way to explain the plot. "Where do we begin?""At the beginning."I found the plot to be slow and the pacing in some parts of the book was slightly off. While the beginning was very interesting, the mystery behind Bree's mothers death couldn't hold my attention for long. The middle was even more slow, where the plot was not progressing in any way. Although the plot's main focus was still finding the truth of Bree's mothers death, I felt it wasn't a strong enough storyline for a 630 page book. “Love is a powerful thing, more powerful than blood, although both run through us like a river.”This book felt like The Mortal Instruments meets The Hunger Games in some ways (apologies for the comparison to two white books, I only meant some common tropes were similar), but I think Bree is a very different character than Clary and Katniss and this book can still stand on its own without the comparison. Even then, I enjoyed both of those series a lot more than this book, as those books had a stronger plot than Legendborn.“And then I’m in the air, leaving the earth and trees far behind me.”There were some plot twists in this book which were well written, and were foreshadowed, but unfortunately they didn't have much of an impact on me as I wasn't invested enough in anything that was happening. The ending was great, and I am hoping the sequel would be a better read.“But when your entire world is shattering, a little bit of magic is… nothing.”The entire world building of this book comprised of info-dumping. I am still confused about the world and everything went over my head. While I always despise info-dumping, I can tolerate it in small doses. This book has pages upon pages of information that is dumped on us. At one point in the book, 10 pages of the world and how it functions is explained. That is too much for me to excuse. A lot of words like 'Shadowborn' and 'Onceborn' are capitalized throughout the book, and I still do not know what they mean. Usually in fantasy books where the main character is new to the world, we understand the world along with the main character. But in this case,  Bree seemed to understand everything about the world instantly, while I was completely confused.  I am sad I missed out on it, as I actually felt the world was properly thought over. Though I am not that well-versed in the King Arthur legend,  I liked the concept of the book and the new take on it. It was refreshing to see.“I don’t cry for my mother’s death. Or for myself. I cry because these strangers in the hospital—the nurse, the doctor, the police officer—don’t know my mother, and yet they were closest to her when she died. And when your people die, you have to listen to strangers speak your nightmare into existence.”I really appreciated the writing. As I said before, Bree's grief was so well written. Her pain was raw and it really hit home. The rest of the writing was good as well, and for a debut novel I think it was incredible. I am looking forward to reading more books by Tracy Deonn. There were some things that I didn't like about the writing, namely all the flashback and memory scenes.  While I think they were impactful, 1st person flashback and memories do not work for me. I like it more it in 3rd person, but that is just a personal preference. I am being very nitpicky, but we also have "I release the breath I’d been holding", which is better than the classic 'I let out a breath I didn't know I'd been holding', but I am finding this sentence or variations of in every other YA book I am reading these days. To each to to their own, I suppose, though I want to know if I was the only one who was annoyed by this. “Who’s the literary nerd? The quoter or the one who recognizes the quote?”The characters of this book were ok. Bree was definitely the most well developed, but I didn't really like the rest of the characters. I wish the book focused a little more on the side-characters as even though they played a role in this book, they mostly faded into the background. ◙ Bree Mathews  “My father says focus is death’s most precious gift.”“Death doesn’t give gifts.”Bree is definitely one of the best first person perspectives I've read in YA. I liked her POV a lot. She is fierce and brave and doesn't let anything break her. Her determination to find out the truth about her mothers death and her love for her mother was beautiful to see. “Because death breaks our connection! I want to scream. Death is not a thread. It is the sharp cut that severs us. Death separates us from one another, and yet it holds us close. As deeply as we hate it, it loves us more”I like that even though she is strong, she still has her flaws. Bree is an actual strong female protagonist, and I wish we see more characters like her in books. “For the first time, I wonder if maybe Sel’s right and I am born of shadows. Or maybe those shadows aren’t who I am, but I keep finding my way to them anyway.” ◙ Selwyn Kane  Sel was an intriguing character. I wasn't interested in him in the beginning but as we got to know more about him I liked him more.“He can’t be more than eighteen, but something about his features doesn’t belong to a teenager—the cut of his jaw, the line of his nose. His stillness.”He is a typical ‘brooding love-interest with a tragic past’, a trope that I am sadly sick of reading. Either way, he wasn't completely bad. ◙ Nick Davis  I liked Nick a lot more than I liked Sel. I found his character to be a bit more relatable. “This boy is not part of the plan. Not the beginning, middle, or anywhere in between.”He also fits the 'goofy, sweet male love interest' stereotype, but this is a trope I actually don't mind seeing in books. I am curious to see where his arc goes.“How does this boy navigate my emotions like a seasoned sailor, finding the clear skies and bringing them closer, when all I seem able to do is hold fast to the storms?”The romance of the book was nice. The love triangle is definitely unnecessary, but for once its not completely obvious who the main character will end up with. I do not mind if Bree ends with Nick or Sel, but then again I am unfortunately not that invested to really care.“You’re not a damsel to me, Bree. You’re a warrior. You’re strong and you’re beautiful and you’re brilliant and brave.”I must say that the romance was very insta-lovey, and not just in the 'i-love-you-even-though-i-met-you-days-ago' way, but more like the 'i-will-do-anything-to-protect-you-and-even-give-up-my-life-for-you-because-i-love-you-so-much-even-though-i-met-you-days-ago' way which is more annoying and also a bit unrealistic. There is a reason for this provided in the end, but its still insta-love in my eyes. However, I still liked it a bit and thought it was sweet. “You are remarkable.”In short, Legendborn was a read that did not work for me primarily due to the amount of YA clichés it had. This book had all the tropes and things in books I personally hate- love triangles, insta-love, info-dumping, flashbacks and memories in first person, side-characters that fade in the background, lack of focus on platonic friendships, brooding male love interest with a tragic past, etc- all combined in one, which took away my enjoyment. But apart from this, it also has great powerful portrayal of grief, a strong black female protagonist and great writing. I would recommend it if you can look past the tropes. (Edit-17/10/2022:, I realized I didn't mention this before so I'm adding an edit, but I absolutely acknowledge that while these tropes common in white cishet non-disabled stories, they are still lacking in books with BIPOC, LGBTQIAP+ and disability rep, and I do not intend to dispute that in my review at all.)“Growing up Black in the South, it’s pretty common to find yourself in old places that just… weren’t made for you. Maybe it’s a building, a historic district, or a street. Some space that was originally built for white people and white people only, and you just have to hold that knowledge while going about your business. (...) You gain an awareness. Learn to hear the low buzzing sound of exclusion. A sound that says, We didn’t build this for you. We built it for us. This is ours, not yours.” Buddy Read with my team The Avid Readers at The Never Ending TBR. Review written on 10th July, 2021.   DISCLAIMER-All opinions on books I’ve read and reviewed are my own, and are with no intention to offend anyone. If you feel offended by my reviews, let me know how I can fix it.How I Rate-1 star- Hardly liked anything/ was disappointed2 star- Had potential but did not deliver/ was disappointed3 stars- Was ok but could have been better/ was average / Enjoyed a lot but something was missing4 stars- Loved a lot but something was missing5 stars- Loved it/ new favourite....................................................This was disappointing. Really really disappointing. I had such high expectations, but this just didn’t work for me. 1 star maybe. Review to come.