This was a fantasy that stood out among the other releases this year. Love it or hate it this book brought a different premise and I saw a lot of fanfare around it. It gave me a lot to think about and break down.Bree Matthew's is still grieving her mother's death and getting accepted into UNC Chapel Hill's early college program seems like the distraction she needs. But was her mother's death actually an accident? Bree ends up stumbling upon a secret Arthurian society that may have the answer she seeks. After a strange encounter at a party. Bree enlists help from reluctant Legendborn Nick. I liked that this was set on a college campus. Especially since this story is set in a somewhat realistic version of our world it provided a way for Bree to sneak out every night without being under her father's watchful eye. However the school life aspect was underdeveloped and there was no balance there whatsoever. Also these teens could've easily been bumped up to 18 year old college students instead of being high schoolers. The school aspect could've been fleshed out better and would've balanced the story.There is a romance with a love triangle brewing at the surface and some insta-love. I really wasn't feeling the one relationship so I hope it doesn't go in that direction. I felt the book could've stood without the romantic aspect because it was giving early 2010s YA vibes with the two generic archetypes of male love interests. Also the descriptions of them being boys who looked like men was creepy.For the most part was very fast paced except for some info-dumpy sections particularly in the middle. Initially the acceptance of magic was breezed over so quickly it gave me whiplash. I am interested in reading more though the medieval fantasy aspect didn't capture me. I'm having a hard time understanding that magic system and really could use a good explanation of how everyone's powers work.There also needs to be more development on the character front. Bree was so one track minded and we didn't get many scenes with her genuinely connecting with the people around her. Her lack of Black peers was jarring to me especially since she was so surrounded by white kids in the order. And her best friend was shown so little I didn't even believe their closeness.I am interested in seeing how things develop in the next book since this is a trilogy.I received an arc via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.Read more athttps://womenofcolorreadtoo.blogspot....