The Mad Ship picked up right where Ship of Magic ended so I didn't have to wait much before I found myself between the action. And by action I didn't mean the pirate battles or some wars but the planning and plotting to win a LivShip's heart. Hobb did a wonderful job with every story arc that she gave us in first book but here I will talk about my favorite ones i.e. Malta, Kennit, and Paragon. Malta was the character I hate to love but she changed herself so much here that it was hard for almost half of the book that this was the same arrogant, cunning, vile, and proud girl I met in first book. The change in her was so drastic. For a long time I thought she would changed her colors and be back to same cruel girl but it never happened and with each chapter she paved her way in my heart and it was so hard to hate her. I know she was naive and manipulative but here she showed a depth in her character and understanding of things which some people would say beyond her understanding. Kennit is a work of art, he beat Malta in manipulation by leagues. He was making everyone on his ship doing things he wanted them to do all the while making them think that he was giving into what they want. All the while he was keeping his secrets hidden from every one else, his motives and his darkest desires. I hated him and yet could not stop marveling at how he turned the tide in his favor. One moment he was on the door of death and bam in the other he was the pirate king. The crippled god who would save the slaves from their cruel masters. But no one knew how ambitious he was and he would not think a moment if he had to kill everyone to achieve his goal. Paragon was introduced in the Ship of Magic and I kept wondering why he was given a PoV when he did nothing but stand on the shore of Bingtown and behave like some mad man. And perhaps that's why he was called a mad ship, yes now you know where this book got it's title. From refusing to sail again to going on a quest which was a lost cause even before it started. Paragon was not a character that I liked initially but he slowly grew on me and there were many times in this book where he revealed some painful secret from his past which left me sad. Definitely a very good middle book though slow at times it was slow but in the end I am happy how events in this book made way for the finale.