** Re-read in May 2023 - Still lovvvve it and re-learning the secrets of the Rain Wilds and seeing the people I love grow up and change and face challenges, was fabulous!**Honestly, this is one of the best books I have ever read and certainly will be one of the top books of this year so far for me. I am so happy that after disliking the final Farseer book I continued on with Hobb's work because this book has sealed her as a fabulous and key writer in the Fantasy genre for me. She's a fantastic writer, and I think that the progression between the first trilogy and this one is utterly incredible in the difference. This is once more the continuation of the Vestrit Family and their lives at a time of turmoil and unrest in their community. The world that they live in is vast, but their section is called the Cursed Shores and few people travel there. In recent times more people have slowly been trickling into their town and threatening the way that they live and the customs they keep, causing discontent and hatred between the New Traders and the Old Traders. Life is fairly simple in this part of the world. Usually the women stay home with their children whilst the men go to sea and trade in order to gain money and keep their families afloat. The Vestrit family is not exactly 'normal' however because each of the members are their own person, witjh their owl ambitions, goals and flaws. One of the best elements of these books is the characterisation that Hobb manages to make utterly and flawlessly believable. The characters we meet in these books all feel totally realistic and truly undeniable, and we grow to love and hate, worry over and whine at each of them in turn. Ship of Magic is the first book in this series and I gave it a 5* rating and loved every moment of reading it, but this book is 1,000x better! I didn't even know that Hobb could weave the elements of a story so well together but she has not only done that, but she did it beautifully and timed each and every revelation and build-up so well. The writing is stunning and the intensity and realisation of the world is also stunning, Picturing some of the scenes and places within this book is so easy! Also, some of the characters are fabulous in the way that they act and speak and many times I found a phrase or section of speech or thought which mystified and amazed or awed me with the depth of thought behind it.This world focuses a lot on Trade and for the best and most efficient Trade having a Liveship (literally a Ship which has absorbed the memories of various family members and had become alive) from the rain Wild Traders is a great way to travel. The ships have their own persoanlities and we get to see them all as they grow and develop with the people surrounding them and the events that they witness or are involved in. The nurturing and care of a Liveship is a delicate balance and when too much treachery or devastation comes into play it can harm the ship and make them go mad.Some of the characters who I really enjoyed seeing develop in this book included:- Malta Vestrit - a young, fairly spoilt girl at the start of the series who cares only for material possessions and getting her own way. Whilst she was an irritant to begin with she was a convincing character and her tendencies both shocked and annoyed me because of how real she felt. As the story goes on however Malta develops a lot and the harsh situation that the Vestrit family find themselves in clearly does affect her and the way that she is able to grow up and change. - Reyn Khuprus - a young man who is a member of the Rain Wild traders. Reyn is the first Rain Wild point of view we get to see and in this book he really gives us a fair amount of clues and insight into who the rain Wilds are and what they believe in. We get to experience the wonder of their home, the customs they follow and believe and see him face some very difficult choices between what he wishes to do and what he can do.- Paragon - the ship Paragon is known by nearly everyone in Bingtown as the Mad Ship because of how many times he has sailed and killed the crew working aboard him. it's clear that many bad things have happened to Paragon and so he seems unstable and unhappy a lot of the time. He's a liveship, but he no longer sails because people are afraid of him and very few people want to even go near him, let alone risk sailing him. However, despite all that paragon became one of the best characters in my mind whilst reading this because of how funny and sad he could be at times. There were moments I laughed at his bitterness and savage insults, and other moments when he would reveal a secret of such sadness I felt like crying for him.- Vivacia - is the Vestrit family liveship who is only a very recently awakened ship. Everything she believed would happen before she was quickened (brought to life by the memories) has been challenged and changed since her awakening and she's stuck in a world of wrongness and savagery which threatens to change her forever. She's a young liveship compared to Paragon and so she's more easily influenced by the people on board her and in this book she certainly starts to become something other than what she always believed she'd be.- Etta - us a whore from Divvytown who is sailing alongside Captain Kennit (a pirate). She's a character who goes through a lot of growth in this book with the help of one of the Vestrit's and she becomes a much better woman because of the help she gets. She's a strong-willed fighter and she resents people looking down on her or helping her, but when she does let someone in she's kind and considerate too. I enjoyed seeing the way that her personality evolved with a little nurturing and help. - Amber - a woodcarver who has been living in Bingtown and has become friends with Althea Vestrit and the Paragon recently. She;s a fairly mysterious character and as yet her origins are unknown by the reader, yet she brings new advice and perspectives to the traders and she tries her best to help maintain the old ways of Bingtown. Many of the thought-provoking writing came from conversations between her and others in the book, particularly Paragon, and I enjoyed that immensely.-Sirilla - a Companion to the Satrap (ruler over Bingtown, although much hated there in recent years). She's an intelligent and well-qualified advisor to the Satrap but when the relationship between Jamaillia (Satrap's home) and Bingtown start to deteriorate she sees it as her chance to slip from his clutches (as she hates the Satrap) and run for freedom. Things don't end up going the way she had hoped, but she's a resourceful character and she uses her intelligence to ensure a future for herself, however she needs to.- The Serpents - as I said in my last review I was unsure exactly how and where the Serpents fitted into the story and what they meant. We see glimpses of their passage as they swim around in search of someone who will help them. The story of the Serpents is mystical and magical, and in this book we begin to see all the strands of the various stories coalesce into a great woven story involving not only this book but also elements from the previous Farseer books. They became a key interest to me particularly in the later half of this book!On the whole everything in this book just worked out so perfectly and so well for me that I couldn't imagine a better story. I was hooked, captivated and enjoying every moment of the ride along with the characters. We really see them develop, and we believe in them and their actions because of how genuine they feel to us. I'd highly recommend this series to one and all who love fantasy because there's so many cool ideas and the pacing and plot is brilliant. The chaarctaers are stellar, and the book as a whole was fatastc. There's still so much to learn in book 3 (Ship of Destiny - which I have already started as i was too hooked and excited not to) and I cannot wait to see how everything with the families finishes up. A fantastic 5* (although I'd give it more if I could) read and one I highly recommend!!!