I’m really starting to like Captain Kennit; he’s such a rogue in a most fortuitous situation. He now has control of the ship Vivacia. Who would have though it? He just seemed to be full of false confidence with a heightened sense of unjustified arrogance. But, it turns out, he is actually quite skilful. He reminds me a little of Jack Sparrow in his deceptive uselessness. And now he finds himself competing with his young protégée, Wintrow, for the love and esteem of the vessel. What did you just say, the love of the Vessel? That’s right. Robin Hobb’s ships are alive. Just look at the pic: Another pirate adventure Despite all their differences, Wintrow learns a hell of a lot form his most unlikely role model. Wintrow has gone from a soft, humble, priest of Sa to a hardened sailor; he now even has the possibility of becoming heir to the rising power of the Pirate King. He has developed a lot, and, in all honesty, I really didn’t expect to see him come this far. He seemed so physically weak, but Robin Hobb has created a character who has developed so much, that is inner strength has turned into outer fortitude. He’s so well written like most of her characters. Eventually, and inevitably, he begins to clash with the roguish captain who, though using Wintrow for his own ends, has developed a twisted affection for him. I guess he sees a lot of himself in the boy. However, that is easily overcome by his burning passion to completely possess the Liveship physically and emotionally. So, if it means pushing WIntrow out of the way to get his goal, he wouldn’t think twice. He’s a pirate after all. He wants a ship that will grant him more wealth, reputation and respect. This is far more important to him than his protégée.  A very familiar face I was hoping for crossovers with the Farseer trilogy, and I really wasn’t disappointed. It was great to see what a certain prophet got up to when he wasn’t with his catalyst. And it was great to see that no matter how far away he is from Fitz, he will always try to remember him and honour him. His chapters were some of the most important because, though his actions may appear simple, they have far reaching consequences. As always his decisions are powerful and influential even if they’re discreet and veiled. The emotion is still there though; it's always there. "To love another person like that, you have to admit that his life is as important as yours. Harder still, you have to admit to yourself that perhaps he has needs you cannot fill, and that you have tasks that will take you far away from him. It costs loneliness and longing and doubt and...” One day, a day I’m looking forward too, all these series’ will come together. Their significance in an overall plot will be revealed. Well, hopefully. If this is the case, then I love the way this is being done. This could quite easily have been a separate fantasy universe but it just wouldn’t have been the same. This is a good series, but it lacks the power of the friendship that makes the other series so great. There is a glimpse of it though it isn’t the full feature. This is good, but Robin Hobb would have to go a real long way to top what she does best. Liveship Traders 1. Ship of Magic- A seafaing 3.5 stars 2. The Mad Ship-  A tumultuous four stars. 3. Ship of Destiny- A cresting four stars