Harry Potter RankedHarry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix: In this installment, my homegirl Luna Lovegood is finally introduced, as is Number 12, Grimmauld Place, and hem hem love-to-hate-her Umbridge. Also, you’ve gotta love the emergence of the D.A. aka Dumbledore’s Army aka the Order of the Phoenix, Jr. This has always been my favorite volume, even though something very sad happens at the end. Although I believe that the way the sadness and loss are handled actually enriches the experience, making it that much more powerful and moving, even though I still really wish said loss hadn’t had to happen.Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince: Slughorn. Voldemort’s backstory. Malfoy’s struggle and inner torment. Harry and Dumbledore’s adventure in the cave. Dumbledore’s death. This book isn’t quite as epic as Order of the Phoenix (no more Weasley twins running amok at Hogwarts, for one thing), but it’s still pretty amazing. Definitely one of the more interesting, intricate, and exciting volumes in the series!Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: I don’t like that most of this book takes place outside of Hogwarts, but it obviously had to be that way. Doesn’t mean I don’t miss hanging out at Hogwarts though! Other than that, this is overall a strong ending to the series. I especially liked breaking out of Gringotts on a dang dragon and stealing a horcrux from Umbridge at the Ministry, and of course the final battle with Voldemort, or, as Uncle Vernon calls him, Lord Voldy-thing. Poor, poor Dobby though. And Fred. And Snape.Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets: This used to be my least favorite entry, but this time around, I really enjoyed Professor Lockhart as the comic relief. Colin Creevey is adorable too. Plus, Potter fights a basilisk and (unknowingly) destroys a horcrux! Good stuff here. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone: Where it all begins! I still just love the insane amount of letters from Hogwarts that Harry was getting, Hagrid is too cute for words. Love the Mirror of Erised and how it is utilized too. This one has its flaws, but overall it’s a really great start to the series.Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban: Definitely a solid entry, what with the entrance of the dementors as well as Lupin and Sirius Black, but ultimately it’s just not one of my favorites anymore. The film adaptation is super impressive though.Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire: Not a huge fan of the Triwizard Tournament or the Yule Ball, plus this book just feels overly long to me. The Blast-Ended Skrewts, however, are freakin awesome! <3