Aparecium!
How to choose a single book in the Harry Potter saga? How to choose a part of something that needs each part to generate the expected impact? I was precisely trying to choose one book to use as example in my "favorites" virtual shelf but I realize that not matter which book would I chose, it would feel "incomplete". So I think that the better way is to add this complete edition including the seven novels to use it in my "favorites" virtual shelf.The rating to the collection is basically the average result combining the seven ratings.
There will be books written about Harry. Every child in the world will know his name.
The Harry Potter novels are truly special to me, since it was "return" to reading for me. I've been a reader all my life, but there were like a "hole" for a couple of years when I wasn't reading anything and certainly it wasn't something good since reading is really important to me and an essential part of myself.I had already watched four films of Harry Potter when finally I decided to read the novels. I have to thank a friend that he insisted in lending me the first book. Odd enough, he had it on English language while he didn't read English (at least at that time), so he told me that he was glad that somebody was actually reading the book. (He already had read the first 4 books but in Spanish language). I am not a fan of borrowing books and also I don't like that people lend me books, basically for not being in situation where I may feel obliged to borrow some of my books returning the favor. However, since he insisted so much and I knew that he won't ask me for any of my books, finally I accepted. 
SOMETHING REALLY MAGICAL STARTS THEN!!!
Wow! I enjoyed a lot the first book, so after that, I started to buy by my own, the following books, even when I already read the seven books, finally I bought my own copy of the first novel to complete the collection. As far as I remember I was able of not having to wait any novel until the final seventh book (such a long wait for that final novel!!!). I ran to the book store to buy it on the very day that it was out and I read it in like 3 days to avoid that somebody would spoil me something crutial or some news on papers and/or internet would spoil a key detail. A reading odyssey of like two years for me.
The Philosopher's Stone
 (5 stars rating)
It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.
Truly magical experience where J.K. Rowling, the author, was able to merge such fantastic world with wizards, witches and other paranormal beings with the real experience of parents and kids when they are going to school, needing to get school supplies, books, equipment, etc... Along with all these, the forging a honest and strong friendship between three great characters. And a good thing is that I didn't need to wait years to know how to pronounce the name of Hermione! :D Hermione rules!!!
The Chamber of Secrets
 (4 stars rating)
It is our choices… that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.
Maybe I am not fair with my rating on the second book, since the story is quite awesome indeed. I have to admit that my main reason of taking away a star is something involved with Ron Weasley, I can't detail to avoid a spoiler, but I can say that well, I am not much fan of Ron, sorry, what can I say? So, since he got a prominent role at some point here, well, I miss the one that isn't there at that moment. 
The Prisoner of Azkaban
 (5 stars rating)
Happiness can be found, even in the darkest of times, if one only remembers to turn on the light.
Easily the strongest book of the whole bunch. Not only it has a truly well crafted mystery but also, you will amaze to realize how a lot of elements presented in the previous books are explained the reason of existing here in this novel and all is turning around of a character.
The Goblet of Fire
 (5 stars rating)
If you want to know what a man’s like, take a good look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals.
Awesome book where the magical world just got bigger and better. You get to know that not only at UK there are wizards and witches but also in other countries. Also, you realize that while the characters have faced dangerous situations before, well, they will have to realize that things are not a game anymore and there will be consequences and dealing with events that they can't be undone.
The Order of the Phoenix
 (4 stars rating)
Things we lose have a way of coming back to us in the end, if not always in the way we expect.
Maybe another unfair rating. I felt the need of taking away a star just because to reflect the high levels of stress that I suffered while reading this book. Honestly, I really felt "trapped" by it. Hogwarts becomes an awful place to live. There are several really cool scenes. There are moments of wonderful amazement. And of course, you get new wonderful characters too. Luna and Tonks rule! However things became so dark and awful at Hogwarts that I really got stressed each time that I was returning to the book.
The Half-Blood Prince
 (5 stars rating)
People find it far easier to forgive others for being wrong than being right.
I don't know, but I think that I was so stressed on the fifth book that that reading the sixth book was a truly joyful experience. Really, I think that it can be the book in the saga that I enjoyed the most to read. Love is in the air on the book. Wasted characters so far, they are able to shine in their own way each. You get to know the tragic but truly interesting past of Lord Voldemort that certainly it didn't justify his actions but indeed they give a lot of depth to the character. 
The Deathly Hallows
 (3 stars rating)
Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all those who live without love.
I don't know if there was the "pressure" of reading the book as quickly as possible to avoid any spoiler (since it was worldwide news the final book of the saga) or that the development of the story was tedious at some points, or the many stuff that J.K Rowling left unexplained on the saga, but at the end, this book is without a doubt the novel that I enjoy the least in the whole saga. I suppose that endings are a sad moment, you have enoying so much reading the saga that knowing that finally you get to the closing of it, you didn't want to end. 
I AM TRULY GLAD OF HAVING READ THIS MAGICAL SAGA AND I RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE!!!