5/5BEST.BOOK.EVER. Cosmere Solar SystemIt was so fabulous. That I died. This review was written from my grave. I swear I say this with every Sanderson book, but this one was actually incredible. I originally was given this book as a gift, the person who brought it for me brought the UK edition. Don't get me wrong I'm not usually this mean or selfish but I asked the person to return it and get the Tor hardcover instead... I know I'm a terrible person. But I just needed the addition with the illustrations, the person agreed (oops) and I got my wish. I'm so glad I'm a mean person because the Tor hardcover is honestly a lovely edition to any book shelf and I'm so grateful to own such a piece of treasure. Honestly one of my favourite owned books because of the cover and content. I love everything about it, like it couldn't be anymore PERFECT. It's so wonderfully glorious, that everyone should feel honoured for its existence. I'm an pernickety book hoarder and i like reading my hardcovers with the dust cover off and upon taking the dust cover off this book, my mouth gaped. It is so freaking beautiful! The pattern carved into the front is so goddamn gorgeous and I even gaped at the title on the spine. I know I'm a freak, but I stroked the front of the cover for like an hour. Everytime I picked it up to put the dust cover back on I needed one last touch. Even thinking about stroking it makes me want to stroke it. Oh and it smelt like heaven. I may or may not have cried tears of love at a few of the illustrations. Sanderson is a God and he is the God, I worship. I'm changing my religion to BS. I'm not even sorry for talking incoherent shit because this book is worthy of all admiration.This book is an anthology of short stories in The Cosmere. I highly suggest reading Mistborn 1-6, Elantris & Stormlight Archive 1-2 before starting this book. Some of the novellas are continuations of the above series, so you must read this book last. This book was like a gift that just kept giving. Every story had a new secret. And in the edition I own of this novel at the start of every chapter there is an illustration for the story. Sixth of DuskI loved this book... Just incase you needed to hear it again. One thing I just can't get over is Sanderson writing, like it is NEXT LEVEL GREATNESS. Every little thing in the plot has meaning and it's mind blowing good. I can't flail my arms and fangirl enough over it. I have done reviews for all the short stories within this anthology and you can find them here;Emperors Soul The Eleventh Metal Allomancer Jak and The Pits of Eltania Mistborn Secret History Shadows for Silence in the Forests of Hell Sixth of Dusk Edgedancer I must say I loved all novellas but definitely had four favourites; Shadows for Silence in the Forests of Hell, Emperors Soul, Mistborn Secret History and my favourite was definitely Edgedancer. I love anything set in Rosher, so this book was like a special treat for a starving fan before Oathbringers release in Nov 2017. I suggest reading this novel before Oathbringer as it is pretty much a continuation of Words of Radiance, only from Lifts POV.Note: there is also two other novellas including Hope of Elantris & a Whitesand Excerpt (Brandon's graphic novel). I haven't written a review for either, however I will say I loved the Whitesand excerpt and I am definitely rushing out to purchase the graphic novel.Recommended to all Sanderson Cosmere fans.This was a Buddy read with my children who are also voidbringersWhorefart , Dewi , Breadstick, Wifey & My brother from another mother.