Arcanum Unbounded is a wonderful compilation of stories from throughout the Cosmere, spanning several worlds familiar and unfamiliar. And not just that, but it includes a brief introduction to each world with descriptions of its environment and importance, as well as postscripts where Sanderson speaks about the creation of the various stories.I read the collection in chunks; some of the stories I'd read before, independently or in other anthologies, but most of them were new to me. Overall it's a really enjoyable collection, easily read and compiled in such a way as to provide a treasure trove for any Sanderson fan.Brief reviews of individual stories:The Emperor's Soul (Elantris)This is arguably Sanderson's best work to date. He has a tendency to write comfort reads, although sometimes quite intelligently. The Emperor's Soul, however, is a masterpiece of a novella on a whole new level.Rating: 5 stars.The Hope of Elantris (Elantris)A somewhat sweet, but ultimately pointless short story. It adds little new, but has a good story behind it.Rating: 2 stars.The Eleventh Metal (Mistborn)A brief little origin story for Kelsier, set shortly after his 'incident' in the Pits of Hathsin. Here we get to see the future hero training as a Mistborn in a short, but fun little tale.Rating: 3 stars.Allomancer Jak and the Pits of Eltania, Episodes Twenty-Eight through Thirty (Mistborn)As if taken straight from a pulp fiction magazine, this is an excellent little first-person heroic adventure story from the second Mistborn era. It reminded me of The Silver Shroud from Fallout 4 more than anything.Rating: 4 stars.Secret History (Mistborn)I had read this story before, and as much fun it is, and as much as I love the protagonist more than anyone else in the Mistborn world, I do not appreciate its existence. For me, this is one of those stories where I would absolutely have rather been left to wonder. It also should absolutely not be read by anyone who has not read The Bands of Mourning, as it spoils the quality of that entire book.Rating: 3 stars.White Sand Vol. 1I just skimmed through this, so no rating here. I will pick it up in full at a later point. The series seems to have quite an interesting premise, though, as all Cosmere series do.Shadows for Silence in the Forests of Hill (Threnody)This is another story I had read before, and I was not particularly impressed. It might be interesting if Sanderson provided some more development in this particular world, however.Rating: 3 stars.Sixth of the DuskA fascinating new Cosmere world is revealed, and I was particularly intrigued to read Sanderson's descriptions of life in and around the ocean, something I don't believe I've really encountered in his works before.Rating: 4 starsI did not read Edgedancer as I'm holding off on the Stormlight Archive series for now.