Okay, so since this is a collection of his novellas and "short" stories, I'm just going to do a breakdown of how I felt about each. I can't go into detail about most because you have to read some of his books before you read these. I do love the prefaces that give you hints and some explanation about the Cosmere, and this is a must have for any Brandon Sanderson fan unless you've collected them all individually and are super good at making small connections. Selish System (Elantris)The Emperor's Soul (5*s): This doesn't have to be read after any of his books, so you could go ahead and pick this one up right now. I have read this story twice now, and it remains one of my favorite novellas ever. The Hope of Elantris (4*s): This has to be read after reading Elantris, and for me, the afterward really made this "short" story. I was a bit curious about the contents (trying not to spoil) seeing how this take place during a very important section of Elantris, but I do think the backstory on the character's name was super sweet and awesome. Scadrian System (Mistborn)The Eleventh Metal (4*s): This can be read before any of the Mistborn books, and it would be fine. This goes into a bit of detail of how Kelsier first gets started on the path he is on in The Final Empire (Mistborn #1). It was great to get back to Kelsier who was one of my favorites in the series beside Tensoon.Allomancer Jack & the Pits of Eltania (3.75*s): My least favorite in the collection but still worth the read. I love the style this was written in and how ridiculous Jack is. You'll want to wait to read this until after Allow of Law (Mistborn #4). Mistborn: Secret History (5*s): Woah this was amazing. You have to have read all the way through Bands of Mourning before you should read this but totally worth it. The Cosmere implications and the direction of the overall plot of his universe are so exciting!Taladin SystemWhite Sand (5*s): I haven't read all of White Sand since only a snippet of the graphic novel is included, but I can tell that I am going to love the rest when I read it. I love that the main character doesn't have a lot of power to use, so he must be clever and quick to keep up with more gifted people. I cannot wait to get my hands on this one. Threnodite SystemShadows for Silence in the Forest of Hell (4.5*s): I originally read this out of the Dangerous Women anthology, and I found it equally entertaining here. I find it's ability to be visited without a shard intriguing and hope we learn more about it in the future. Drominad SystemSixth of Dusk (5*s): I loved Sixth, and the way the birds are in this system makes me a little bit less afraid of them. This is another world where I hope we get some more stories from particularly to find out what happens after this story in terms of culture change and technological advances. Rosharan System (The Stormlight Archive)Edgedancer (5*s): Probably the most fun novella to read in the collection. I absolutely love Lift. It's too bad you should read both Way of Kings and Words of Radiance before reading this one.