Ugh. This one did not age well.I read it as a young teenager and absolutely adored it the first time around, like I did all of Tamora Pierce's books. I really wanted to be Aly. Of all the main characters in the Tortall universe she was the one I identified with the most - famous mostly because of her mind, not her strength, but she was way cooler than I was.To be fair, there's still a lot of things about this book. The worldbuilding is still exquisite. I find all of the side characters really compelling. And Nawat. Oh, sweet, sweet Nawat. We also see Aly's character grow and mature somewhat from the first book, which is good since she was getting on my nerves.I had issues with some of the character development, namely, that of Dove and Sarai. And here there be spoilers:  Dove was always my favorite and I'm glad she wound up on the throne, but it was an abrupt transition. In the first book, we are told that nobody really likes her, that they find her quiet and too odd. Even the raka crowds, when they come to see the sisters at their country exile, basically ignore her.However, in the second book she has friends all over the markets and its emphasized that she stops and talks with the common people when Sarai really doesn't. How would people, especially those running the conspiracy, not have noticed that she was friendly enough, just shyer in book one? Her character development comes at the expense of Sarai's, who is thrown under the bus. I find it hard to believe that Sarai would give up swordfighting after seeing how necessary it is to save her family, constantly say rude things to powerful people that could get her whole family executed, and run off with a nobleman after fending off a prince's advances at only sixteen. I feel like it plays into the trope of any girl that is interested in her appearance and romance being flighty and stupid. However, none of this was enough to salvage it from the incredibly ham-handed treatment of race and colonization.This book would not be able to get published in 2020. Every time Aly thinks about the rebellion, she thinks about how she has to stop the raka rebels from murdering all the luarin, including people who are part raka and part luarin, in a bloody frenzy. Not only is it incredibly myopic for her to not be able to understand why a people who have been under brutal colonial rule for centuries would maybe want a bit of revenge, it's insulting that she thinks they are all bloodthirsty. And she doesn't spend half as much time worrying about raka being killed by luarin soldiers during the rebellion, or during their normal lives in a brutal settler colonial slave state.She's not the only one. When Aly brings Dove into the conspiracy, Dove's first thought is that she is worried about bloodshed. No, not the thousands of raka who will inevitably die under a government that's already proven to be super violent. She's worried about the luarin nobles and landlords who will be killed as revenge. Seriously? We're expected to believe that this kind half-raka queen-to-be, sensitive to injustice, will think of the nobles of the colonizing class first?At one point Aly even says that she explained to the rebels (all raka or part raka except for her) why they can't be super violent AS IF THEY WERE CHILDREN. Yes, she explicitly says she talks to them as if they were children. That line stood out to me given the history of considering POC in our world as child-like, without the intellect and agency adult humans have, and always needing a white person to guide them.The real kicker for me was at the end when planning the final push on the rebellion, the luarin nobles are assured that they will all get to keep their huge estates unless they were mean to the raka. That solves none of the underlying issues in this society, which is that these arrivals from foreign lands took all the land, displaced the people who lived on it, and forced them to work for them. I know this is a quasi-medieval world but ugh, that just means The Copper Isles will have another rebellion in a couple of decades. It's clear that Tamora Pierce wanted to try something new and explore the topics of colonialism, but more nuance, research and empathy was needed. It left a sour taste in my mouth