In Trickster's Queen, Aly's role has slowly turned into Spy Master. Yes, she's… what, 18 at this point? And she's working with raka people who have been planing this for generations. But, she has the talent and the skills to be an amazing spy master, and the raka aren't going to look a gift horse in the mouth. Unfortunately for us as a reader, this means Aly spend a lot of time reading reports and attending meetings. But Pierce doesn't make this dull or boring. While Aly might not be directly involved in all the events shaping the impending revolution, she is obviously pulling the strings. What I love most about this is when characters who don't know Aly are introduced to her as a spy master, they all guffaw. But Aly proves herself every time. It's lovely. As I said, this wasn't as strong a book as the first. I love how everything resolved and how not everything went Aly's way. Yet… The Darkings. I adore how they are characterized. They are small and adventuresome and just looking for "Fun!". I listened to the audiobook, and they were depicted with adorable tiny, squeeky voices. It was perfect. And yet it was such an easy way for Aly to get everything she needed. It felt a bit like cheating at spying, honestly. I would have enjoyed them more if they had been fed lies that trapped Aly, or if more of them had been caught. Also-- our Royal Baddies were incompetent. They couldn't get their stuff together no matter what. It was weird. The first Rittevon king just dies of old age. Okay, I can forgive that. The next Rittevon king dies from gluttony, which he more or less does to himself in a strange suicide because he doesn't want to be King. ...Weird. So, we get to the newest Rittevon king, a five-year-old boy. Obviously, his mother and father become Regents and they are completely incompetent. Which blows my mind. Rubinyan has schemed and plotted his whole life trying to get to this point. Yet, suddenly with the power of the throne around him, everything falls apart. And Imajane seems to have inherited the kingly line of lunacy. So, one regent is going crazy and doing all sorts of crazy things to make the kingdom fear and distrust her, while Rubinyan is just trying to keep her in line. What? It just makes everything so much easier for Aly and the conspirators.That said, I didn't dislike this book. I was enraptured with the story Pierce wove. Now that they are so close to putting the Twice Royal Queen on the throne, we really get to know the raka conspirators much better. They have grown to trust Aly. We watch they relationships develop and deepen within their ranks, as well as with the other members of the Balitang household. A few characters even took turns I wasn't expecting, and I found that some of my favorite characters by the end of the book were unexpected. In the end, I loved how intelligent this duology is. The relationships, plots, and politics are all well crafted. I even found it exciting, which I didn't expect! The plot had a fluidity that felt real since things couldn’t always go as planned for our conspirators. In the end, this was a great tale and I hope many of you are willing to explore the story. After all, we have a bratty 16-year-old who turns into a strong female spy master. Aly's transformation is remarkable and completely realistic. What is there not to like?