This book is a very effective demonstration of why the Alanna-series works so well. It simply ignores most of what made Tamora Pierce's original series so awesome. The Adventure Alanna's adventures always happen in a very immediate way, with our heroine struggling for the very success of the single pursuit. Maybe the world feels a bit small, as you only get to see what she sees; show not tell. Which is good.Aly, our protagonist in this book, almost never engages in direct conflict. In the first novel, Trickster's Choice, this was somewhat better, as Aly was less omnipotent. But here, we just have our heroine as the spider at the centre of a giant web of information (basically cheap exposition). She is coordinating this giant revolution scheme, which is trying for a sort of game-of-thrones-y feeling with a lot of conspiracies and relativized morals. I appreciate Tamora Pierce trying something different, but we lose the authentic, empathic over-the-shoulder-feeling we had with Alanna and instead get a half-assed, convoluted spy story.  The Suspense and the Stakes The Alanna series lives from a very overwhelming world with forces bigger than our heroine. She is very skillful and intelligent, but she has things restricting her, her discomfort of magic, her conflict with her femininity, her constraints as a women in this predominantly male world. The series also has powerful and charismatic antagonists, at most times very personally connected to Alanna.Aly has nothing of all that. She is literally omnipotent. She is intelligent. She knows how to conduct herself socially towards everybody. She controls all the spies of the country and has powerful Dei ex machinae at her bidding. She is even a good physical fighter, even if allegedly, she's oh so different from her mother.She literally doesn't have an antagonist who gets more than a couple of lines in a public setting. Most of the revolution happens in the episodic, boring shenanigans she sets up, mostly attacks on places, stealing stuff, raising public attention. But there are never any stakes since the people who execute those plan's are just named pieces on a chessboard and you can't feel anxious for them. The Personal Drama If you liked Jonathan, George, Myles etc. or not, they always felt like people. The friendships and romantic relationships are natural and heart-warming.Here's the one point I like about this. Our love interest, Nawat, (just one, NO love triangle! In a YA book!) is okay. His and Aly's story is very subtle and the book handles the relationship and sexuality very maturely and calmly. The rest of the relationships are so boring and flat. Sarai and Dove are built just so the story can progress the way it will. (Sarai's the annoying and useless one who's annoyingly the first-born, so the reader can root for the nearly Aly-levels-omnipotent younger sister Dove.) It's bad if the final conclusion of the book is basically reflected in the characterisation.I guess this could make a better movie than a book. You could get rid of Aly's stream of consciousness, both too long and removing all the tension. And you could shorten this thing radically.