Ahhhhh Royce and Hadrian my old friends. Lovely to see you again. I think it a testament to an author when characters become so loved that you become excited to be reading about them again. The first book in the Riyria Chronicles is an absolute gem and hearing all about how our two heroes met really feels like it is a story that should be told.If you have read the Revelations series then this series (jumping the gun a bit here) is a must read. One of the things that I have enjoyed, apart from reading about the two lads, is the patience and detail that Sullivan has added to the story to make sure that events that happen later are not just prefixed with a quick paragraph fix. I don't think that I am explaining myself very well. It would have been easy for example to introduce somebody from future books and have them by chance meet another character and that is that. But Sullivan takes time to develop a story around the meeting that is very real and actually adds to your knowledge of the relationship. It is hard to image that this was written after the Revelations series because it is so historically detailed.That brings me to a interesting point. In what order should you read the series? In the intro, Sullivan explains that this could be a 12 book series. Each a stand alone and readable whenever, with an end point, so no cliff hangers. It allows him to write as many as he wants, or as he says, as we readers want. The biggest problem I would have in reading some of this series before reading Revelations is the writing story quality. It took me at least 3 revelations books to become a fanboy and be hooked on the series. The first couple I scored 3 stars and thought they were 'ok'. The last few books are wonderful and once you are engaged in the Hadrian/Royce relationship. it is hard to put them down. Reading this book, the story and writing style is again superb. Book 2 of this series seems the same wonderful read. But if I was to now go to book 1 of Revelations I think I would be saying "wtf happened there? Is this the same author?".At the end of the day it is a moot point for me, as i have read the series, so I know how good it gets. But if anyone asks me what order to read them in. I am definitely recommending Revelations first, then the early years of Chronicals.