This was a really fun read with an interesting, fast-paced plot and a number of likeable characters. The story was made more enjoyable by the fact that I was already invested in the 2 main characters from the main Riyria series however I actually think this book might be a better entry point in light of the fact that it does a better job of establishing Royce and Hadrian as distinct characters although the story is only tangentially related to the main plot of the series with the focus of this one being establishing Royce and Hadrian and developing them from 2 lads who are fundamentally opposed to one another (the ruthless assassin vs the honourable warrior) into an effective partnership. Just realized that last sentence was long as fuck but I'm not going to change it now.This prequel did a masterful job of establishing Hadrian and Royce, imo far better than was done in the first few novels of the main series. I especially appreciated how Royce's ruthlessness was made very apparent whereas in the main series early on he seems like his bark is far worse than his bite. This prequel also did a really nice job of establishing Hadrian as a Rambo style deadly killing machine who is disillusioned with a life of violence (although he hasn't throat ripped anyway. yet.). Their clash of personalities and their burgeoning respect and trust is heart of this story (and this is indeed mirrored nicely in the plot as Arcadius hints that the only reason he set them on this mission was so that they would have to learn to work together).We also got Gwen's origin story in this one. While it fleshed out the world a bit and further developed a pretty cool character from the main series in Gwen, I found it to be pretty dull as there wasn't a lot of action going on, we knew how it would end from the main series and it didn't really provide any new information that was relevant to the rest of the series.The plot itself was fun and fast-paced, if a little simple and predictable, likely owing to the focus on the characters. Probably the highlight of the plot was the boat journey early on which had a cool "whodunnit" bit to it as well as some exposition on Hadrian's character. I liked the twist ending, it was unexpected and well-done although it felt a bit abrupt. A lot of Lawrence's killing off of characters has that feeling to it which makes his books all the more suspenseful and unpredictable. I kind of wish we had gotten Royce's POV on the boat incident though, especially as it would have fleshed it out nicely. The ending to the story was also pretty cool with a desperate escape and epic last stand that reminded me of "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance kid" (the cool one from the 60's not the shitty one with Keanu Reeves).