Make sure that you listen to the song The Deep by clipping. as well as the group Drexciya. How does a book under 200 pages stump me in terms of writing a review. I'm sitting here, at this moment, in my chair attempting to figure out how to summarize/express my feelings about this book. I think that it's probably going to take more than just a written review, but I'm going to try. I liked to preface my thoughts by saying that if you only read this book as a fantastical "mermaid" tale and don't dig deep into the core of its purpose, this book will make no sense to you. It will feel nonsensical. It will feel as though you're sifting your way through pages of nonsensical ramblings set against the back drop of a mermaid tale. It's so much more. So if you didn't get it the first time around. I implore you to read it once more. Dig deep and try to see the connections. The Deep explores so many themes that personally made me feel like this book was written for me. I'm sure everyone is familiar with the premise: pregnant women who were captured and made into slaves were thrown overboard during the transatlantic journey to the Americas and the Caribbean. These women then gave birth to children who turned into mermaids known as the Wajinru in this book. While the mermaid aspect of this book may be fantastical, the historical reference point of the massacring of slaves prior to reaching their final destination is true. This book specifically focuses on Yetu who is classified as the Historian. She carries the history of the "two-legs" and the Wajinru who came before her. The process is taxing and overbearing and Yetu wants nothing more than to quit. My first thought in reading this was related to the constant generational trauma that is inflicted on Black people. Our history is tricky. It's one that we aren't supposed to forget, yet it's one that is so traumatic that quite often we beg to forget, to be something other than this long history of pain and violence. I understood the need, the desire for Yetu to forget. Solomon takes this concept and RUNS with it. From that point forward we are exposed to a discussion related to the rebuilding of identity (Black people have had to build their culture from scratch because it was torn from us through the Transatlantic Slave Trade), gender identity (there are non-binary and lesbian characters), mental health (Yetu struggles with the trauma of the history which is closely related to the mental health of the Black community), the juxtaposition of how all Black people don't handle trauma the same, the importance of Oral traditions, collectivism vs. individuality (there were sections that reminded me of Rastafarianism and why the term of "I and I" is so important), and even ecological destruction. After reading this book I literally sat down and just thought. How can such a small book address everything that I feel as one person? How can I feel so seen and so heard in a FANTASY book? I lost my great-grandmother almost two years ago now. She was the matriarch of my family. My great grandmother also couldn't read or write. Everything I know about my family, everything that I know about who I am and where I come from is through oral tradition. Like so many Black families, our history is documented or contained within history books. We've had to collectively carry our history and pass it down from generation to generation. Each one of us carrying the burden and passing it off to our offspring. But there is joy and beauty in the burden. I'm often reminded of J. Coles lyrics "there's beauty in the struggle." A lot of what we carry is pain, but a lot of what we carry is beauty and joy. We just have to remember to carry it together. I, like Yetu, know that we can't forget our history and where we come from because it's what ingrained in who we are right now, in this moment. You take away our history whether good, bad, or both and then who do we become? Who are we? I could literally cry writing this review. This hands down is the best book I have read in a very long time and I won't stop screaming about how important it is to me and so many others. I hope that this review even makes sense. The emotional impact that it's had on me, the spiritual impact it's had on me is one that is very difficult to translate into words.