UPDATE #2: cover title synopsis 😱*is overwhelmed and dies*★ 
Cover?
 GORGEOUS as usual *swoooons*★ 
Title?
 AWESOME and thankfully not Queen of Storms—I’d have personally jumped out a window if the sequel continued to be Leigh fangirling over Zoya and forgetting Nikolai existed.★ 
Synopsis?
 HOLY. Could this be everything I’d wanted King of Scars to be? Will we finally get Nikolai being a charming and kingly scheming boyo stealing all our hearts? Will there be Nina as an awesome awe-inspiring spy who’s making Kaz proud? Or my fave cunning terrifying Aleksander on our side? I can only hope.
Book series playlist:
 Spotify URL—★—UPDATE #1: we have a release date and it's March 30th 2021 and I'M NERVOUS DHHWJSJWJ—★—This sequel could both be the worst and the best thing ever! It all depends on Leigh Bardugo. I'm begging you: please don't disappoint me!
Things I want: am I the only one who...
• has been waiting for Nikolai to be the actual character whose story we're reading and not Zoya?• has been waiting for the powerful and dark Ulla to make an appearance? *wicked grin*• is begging for Inej or Kaz to pop up?• has been waiting for [spoiler for Ruin and Rising] 
Alina
 to make an appearance? *hopeful eyes*• needs a reunion between [spoiler for King of Scars] Aleksander and Alina?• wants to see [spoiler for Ruin and Rising] Alina and Mal have a child who happens to be Grisha? With special powers?• would love an inside look into Shu Han?• wants to see [spoiler for King of Scars] the Darkling do his thing and just outwit people?
Things I'm anticipating: To read...
• what havoc Nina is gonna wreak, and her hopefully pulling off a higher level of Six of Crows!• her romance grow even more!• about Hanne's conflicts when the time comes for her to make a dreadful choice.• my terrifying [spoiler for King of Scars] Aleksander fully back in action and not turning into a pathetic loser against [spoiler for King of Scars] Zoya's new powers.• Nikolai slaying it with his scheming, with even more twisted political intrigue!
Things I'm dreading: To read...
• another 500 pages about Leigh being too obsessed with Zoya and forgetting whose story she's writing. because I swear King of Scars was just things happening to Nikolai and he wasn't doing anything, just in the sidelines. Only the last chapter was him in action.• Nikolai becoming a pathetic puppy around Zoya and everyone talking about how great they are together and no one seeing Zoya's hypocrisy in constantly undermining him despite saying that she respect him (focus on the saying/ as it doesn't actually happen. He's a goddamn genius, not a helpless king who can't even tell his general off when she disobeys his orders.• thousands of words forcing Leigh's opinion on me with how she's so desperately in love with Zoya and how she is ‘the best thing ever’. I love Zoya, but I don't want to read a fangirl's account. Zoya is too full of hate and anger and wants to kill first, ask questions later, and Leigh keeps praising her for it.• Zoya now being the most powerful character all of sudden and the whole world being in her reckless hands, and her succeeding in exacting revenge from [spoiler for King of Scars] the Darkling.• [spoiler for King of Scars] Aleksander dying again. By Zoya's unworthy hands, no less. If that occurs I will never ever go near a Grishaverse book again because that world will be lost to me!My review of KING OF SCARS (Nikolai Duology, #1): CLICK TO READ REVIEW