“All the Saints and their ugly mothers.”
Bardugo has outdone herself again! Based on a lot of reviews, I didn't expect this series to measure up to the standards set by SoC - and the first book did feel like a step down - but Rule of Wolves makes a phenomenal comeback! For me, this second book is right up there with SoC duology, and I loved every bit of it. 
“I have a surplus of bad ideas,”
It feels repetitive to mention how much I've come to admire Bardugo's writing, world building, and character building, but, I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge those excellent traits. I think she can make anything immersive enough to keep a reader engaged. But Rule of Wolves isn't 'anything'. It makes up nicely for the somewhat slower-paced King of Scars by delivering a highly eventful, and a thoroughly entertaining wrap up to the duology which is full of suspense, mystery and anything else one could hope for. Considering the length of this book (compared to previous ones), KoS could've easily been a trilogy. It certainly would've been possible with how much was happening in this book. I'm really grateful that Bardugo decided to pack everything here, and not to keep the readers waiting for a third book.
“I like to keep all of my potential assassins in one room.”
The story picks up from that annoying ending of King of Scars, but the author introduces a set of twists at beginning, to eliminate the predictability of the story. We get a couple of new POVs, and some brief side quests to Shu and Kerch. It's a little difficult to say anything here without spoiling, so I'll just stop at saying there are some nice surprises waiting for SoC fans. I thought it would be annoying to read The Monk's POV, but it turned out good, if not amusing. Just like with King of Scars, even with the new POVs introduced here, more than half of the book orbits around Zoya: She is definitely the main character in Rule of Wolves. But I'm not complaining, as she has become one of my favorite characters in Grishaverse. Although, I feel she may be a little too over-powered here. The gloomy nature of Nina is not much changed, and I think Bardugo is not willing to make her character appear shallow by making her quickly recover over the loss of Matthias. I definitely hope to see her in future Grishaverse books. And finally, with beast or no beast, Nikolai is awesome as ever, and full of humor.
“We could play cards,” suggested Nikolai. “I’ve been working on a new poem—”(Tolya) “Or we could shoot ourselves out of a cannon.”(Nikolai) “A bit of culture wouldn’t hurt you.”(Tolya)
Saying the plot was eventful is an understatement for this one. There was so much happening, and it often felt like reading a sequel to SoC. The suspense kept on building, and the ending was spread throughout the last quarter of the book instead of confining it to the last few chapters. It made the ending much more satisfying, and helped tying up a lot of loose ends. It was nice, for once, to have a proper ending.
“I think strong men show strength, but great men show strength tempered by compassion.”
This time, with this being the last book and one with the big war, I thought I was prepared for loosing one or two characters towards the end, but Bardugo caught me off-guard. That bomb fell fell out of nowhere - literally and figuratively - and it was nearly impossible to recover from the melancholy it caused even after the end. And then, again, when it came to the last two chapters of Nina, Bardugo almost had me again. That could've broken the ending for me, but luckily, she must've been in a good mood when she wrote Nina's last chapter.
"I have a gift for order and a taste for chaos."
For me, I think this is the first time that a second book of a series worked out this well, by elevating the overall quality of a series. While S&B trilogy was good, I don't think I'll re-read it in foreseeable future. SoC was incredible, and I can't wait till I get to re-read the duology, but as both books of that duology were equally good, no surprise there. This duology had a very different effect. Although I did enjoy King of Scars, it didn't have that 'must re-read' quality. But Rule of Wolves made me re-think that. The second book was a huge step-up from the first, and it not only became great on its own, but also elevated the overall quality of the duology, making one certainly wish for a re-read.
“Love is not known for making men reasonable.”