“Maybe the gift of being human is that we do not give up - even when all hope is lost.”5 ‘deserving’ stars for the epic conclusion of the King of Scars duology. Another story set in Grishaverse and with an ending where everyone gets what they deserve, not necessarily what they wanted and fought for.The PlotThe opening pages sets the scene of a spell binding and captivating story, with Makhi’s mother, who on her death bed and with the power of appointing the next queen, chooses her younger daughter, Princess Ehri, ahead of Makhi; the eldest. With a challenge, from Makhi, that she should rule, the queen replies “… and yet no lesson has ever taught you kindness. No tutor has ever taught you mercy. You have a heart hungry for fear and I do not know why”With the mothers’ words falling on deaf ears, Makhi becomes Queen with Ehri living captive in a world with little friends and in fear of a sister who wants her dead. However, the main story is about the inevitable battle between Fjerda and Shu Han, as the story switches between the worlds of a King, a General and a Spy. The Demon King – Nokolai Lantsov who must fight against Fjerda and the demon inside him. The Stormwitch – Zoya Nazyalensky – the General who commands the second army and has been building a powerful force behind the king. However, with her mentor dead and her worst enemy resurrected, Zoya must win this final battle as she fights against her heart and the love she cannot have.The Spy – Nina Zenik and the Queen of mourning, in a separate storyline wages war against Fjerda from inside its capital.All the threads come together in an epic story packed with political intrigue, fascinating world building, dangerous power struggles and dark magic. With a few romances thrown in for that extra bit of sweetness. Review and CommentsThe Characterisation is superb with the King, a General and a Spy making up the core cast, although there is no shortage of equally likeable and interesting characters. Yet, it was Nikolai’s humour that got me on this one, for instance when someone pointed out that his idea was a bad one. His response made me chuckle “I have a surplus of bad ideas," said Nikolai. "I have to spend them somewhere.”There were also some subtle messages important in todays world. For example, interested in engineering, Nikolai and his engineers discuss building a larger weapon to take into battle. To which Nikolai replies “when you build a large weapon you might want to use it… and before we build a weapon we have to decide what kind of war we want to wage” Wise words indeed. Because very often we see powerful weapons in the hands of the unwise!!!.Another story set in Grishaverse and another book that highlights what a talent Leigh Bardugo is in this genre. I am really impressed with how Bardugo has tied all her books and mini series' together by some common thread, even though some of the characters and storylines are different.The Rule of Wolves possesses the same intrigue, thrill and scheming I get from crime thrillers, but with heaps of imagination that transports you to a different world. A place that provides total escapism in parts, gentle reminders of what is important in life through the dialogue and with the customary message of hope through darker times.Magical, absorbing, tormenting, and compulsive – what more could you ask for!!!