4.5 starsThis book probably saved my sanity. Really.We went camping a few days ago. And I hate camping even when everything goes perfectly. This time, the boys and I got a stomach bug.It wasn't one of those debilitating bugs, unfortunately, because then we could have left. No.It was just one of those bugs that made you 'uncomfortable'.1:00 am*ACHOO!*Moooooom!!!!I sharted!Do you have any idea what it's like to have to walk a kid (who has shit in their pants) down to a woodsy 'bathhouse' at 1:00 in the morning?Only to have them realize (far too late to get new PJs) that the liquid they expelled has drizzled into their pajama pants?Now imagine that same kid running full-tilt back to the camper, in the dark, through the woods, squealing, in nothing but their (new/clean) underwear.My poor kid is still having nightmares about the hysterical laughter that trailed them back to safety.Sorry, baby. I get a little slap-happy when I've had no sleep. Also, it was just damn funny to watch you crash through the brush like your little ass was on fire. But beyond my nightly entertainment, there wasn't much to do. It's not like we could chance a hike. Upset tummies don't mix well with long treks away from the potty.So. The boys and I sat in the camper. 
Fun Fact:
Boys have a shelf life of about 8 hours, before they start to smell really bad.So. Thank you, Kate, for allowing me to mentally escape from my family vacation.
Oh My GAWD!
This is it, people! Book 4 is the one where they finally...Is it a spoiler if I say it out loud?*bites nails*Hmm. I'm not sure, to be quite honest. But, for those of you who know what I'm talking about? *squee!*Alrighty, this book isn't just amazing because of the thing. There's also a whole lotta action 'n suspense stuff to go along with it. Kate meets up with her 
eeeevil
 aunt!OMG! How will this effect her future?! Will Roland find her now?! Will the Pack be a bigger target?! What about Julie?!I'm using too many exclamation points, aren't I?I'm not sure how to describe how into these books I am right now. I. Can't. Stop.In fact, I've already checked out the next book from my library.Oh! Oh! There's an attack poodle in this one!How can you resist a series that has an attack poodle?!You can't! No one could resist that!I haven't found any UF series that I liked as much a my beloved Mercy Thompson, but Kate Daniels is a very close second, at this point. If you're looking for a kick-ass heroine, no weird sex  and by that, I mean they don't bite each other in odd places, and a lot of interesting characters, then you might want to start on this series right away.