Warning The following review contains numerous crazy gifs and incoherent fangirling.Proceed with caution. 

“We had a fight,screamed at each other for a while,I kicked him in the head,and then he stayed the night.”

I honestly tried to be calm.You know,cool,not overly excited.After all,they're just fictional characters.My ship has sailed,what's the big deal,right?I'm cool.So cool.MY SHIP HAS SAILED I DESERVE TO SCREAM AND SQUEAL AND DANCE AND HYPERVENTILATE AND FAINT AND ACT LIKE A CHILD THAT JUST MET SANTA!!!*turns off fangirl mode*Ok,I can continue now.

“Nothing good could possibly come from a plan that involved turning a man into a syphilis incubator.”

Yeap that's right,after the flying palace and the rakshasas there is a new, more dangerous threat.The babylonian god of plague and chaos with seven deadly sidekicks decided to use Atlanta as a playground and eliminate competition by attacking the mighty forces of the city.Kate Daniels is the only one who can defeat this evil force,but the price is the revelation of her bloodline that might endanger everything she holds dear.

“The rabbis paled. I’d managed to terrify holy men. Maybe I could beat up a nun for an encore.” 

After 3 books,one would expect that Ilona Andrews would have trouble writing a compelling and fresh storyline,but that's far from the truth!Magic Bleeds combines action,mystery and romance wrapped up with sarcasm and clever humor and makes falling in love with the story and the characters inevitable!Reading the adventures of Kate Daniels and her furry friends is effortless and utterly enjoyable!I was once again sucked in a complex world full of magic and blood and I still crave more,more battles,more secrets,more sassiness,more ass-kicking,more Curran,more everything!

“He was mine.He cared for me,he made me lose all sense,he didn't give a damn about my father.He was what I wanted,because he made me happy.I wanted him like I'd never wanted anyone in my life.”

Let me tell you this,the relationship between Kate and Curran was a crazy roller-coaster.Every single thing Kate felt,I felt it too.Anger,disappointment,betrayal,heartbreak,longing,happiness,love.She showed a more vulnerable side and I loved her even more for that.Kate and Curran are both arrogant assholes,and it took them some time to solve a terrible misunderstanding,but once they stopped behaving like children,Curran became Kate's own personal psycho and oh boy,it was good!

“You don't pick the family you're born into. You pick the one you make. I already chose my mate and glued her ass to the chair to make sure she knew it.” 

And OH MY GOD THEIR SCENES WERE HOT HOT HOT HOT!!!They never stopped fighting but that was sexy!!Curran is the most delicious alpha-male ever,but he could also be a romantic teddy bear that made me giggle and want to hug him!And do some other,bad things with him!In case I didn't make myself clear,I loved Magic Bleeds!