*** 5 ***The Great Kate Daniels Buddy Read/Reread of 2017 with the gang at Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA)!
"...“You slept with Curran and you didn’t tell me? I’m your best friend.”“It didn’t come up.”“How disappointing for you.”Ha-ha. “That’s not what I meant.” ..."
Well, how can anyone give this emotional and action steamroller less than five stars??? If you are a fan of the series and give this book anything else, than you must be missing something vital... To the rest of us, this book is known as the one "they finally did it!". This is not a spoiler, just what all the IA readership has been waiting for now three books in a row... We all knew it was coming, we just didn't know when and how, and boy did we not get disappointed! It was one feral, raw, emotional and darn satisfying resolution of many tense moments and not very smart or mature hilarious mating dance... All of it happening while a very virulent forms of plagues bringing creature is unleashed on the city, together with something that scares the minds out of people and shifters alike, as well as weird undead attacking all the major clans, creeds and organizations, freaking the population as a whole out. And the culprit might be a close family member of Kate's. Ahhh, her family tree are such sweet people, all of them:) 
"..."“You'll lose.""What makes you so sure?""You have no discipline. All you do is tear down shit down. My father is a bastard, but at least he builds things. You turn cities into smoking ruins and blunder about like some hyper child, smashing anything you see. And then you sit here and wonder, 'Why did all of my children turn out to be violet idiots? It's a mystery of nature,'.” ..."
Kate and Curran, Andrea and Raphael, love seems to be in the air, but there are complications, as it is always the case with the Pack. There are so many politics and clan manipulations, your head would spin. I wanted to scream at some of the clan Alphas, since all of them are constantly in-fighting for power and position, making Kate's future as the Beast Lord's mate a position full of danger and some ass kissing too, which I am sure she feels much less comfortable with than the power challenges. 
"..."“I surveyed the rest of the Council and looked directly at Mahon. “Some of you know me. Some of you have seen me fight and some of you are my friends. Have your vote. But know this: if you come to remove me, come in force, because if you try to separate me from him, I will kill every single one of you. My hand won't shake. My aim won't falter. My face will be the last thing you‟ll see before you die.”I jammed the knife into the table and walked out.” ..."
We lost a very favorite animal, but we also gained a big protector for Kate - an attack poodle!!!! He is ferocious and scares.... well, mostly scares all who are danger to his girl, unless they have something to eat, of course...
"..."“I also stole a small yellow doughnut from the box of Duncan's doughnuts in the rec room and fed it to the attack poodle in my office. He made a great production of it. First, he growled at the doughnut, just to show it who was boss. Then he nudged it with his nose. Then he licked it, until finally he snagged it into his mouth and chomped it with great pleasure, dropping crumbs all over the carpet.” ..."
Overall, this installment of the series is the best so far and the IA team are getting better with every book! I wholeheartedly recommend this and any series written by the two of them when you feel like some action with a heart and no stinginess when it comes to battles and toughness, but also some romance sprinkled throughout. A modern classic of the Urban Fantasy Genre!!!! Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!