Reread 7/2018  4.5 stars!   “I can't give you the white picket fence, and if I did, you'd set it on fire.”  

I'm a giant fan of urban fantasy. I read all kinds of genres of books, but when I read urban fantasy I get a feeling of being at home. The Ilona Andrews writing team created a universe where when I'm having a bad day or want to have a good time, I can open a paperback, and escape there effortlessly and happily. And that's exactly what I did with this book. I recently had some crap come up in my personal life, and when I had the chance I transported myself into this world of mercenaries and werebeasts and didn't want to come back out. So massive kudos to the authors, you did your job right.In magic flare zone Atlanta, Kate Daniels is stood up. That's right, she cooked the Beast Lord Curran dinner, and he never showed. Flash forward about a month or so and the two are at each others' throats. On top of this, there's a strange shaman who keeps showing up in bars and casinos and trying to magic blast the place with plague and disease. It's not long before Kate gets called onto the case, and when she does she finds she might be more connected to it than she expected.This was the best book of this series for me so far. The plot was thrilling, the banter was witty and humorous, and I couldn't put the darn book down even when my eyelids were slowly closing due to a need for sleep. My favorite part of the book? The pranks Kate and Curran were playing on each other. When she covered his bed in catnip and he glued her ass to her office chair? Priceless. The addition of the attack poodle to Kate's daily life only made the story more entertaining.  "....I think a dog is a great idea. I just never pictured you with a mutant poodle.” “He isn’t a poodle. He’s a Doberman mix."“Aha. Keep telling yourself that.”  Also, another reason why this book was awesome? It's the hook up book! Yes, the Kate and Curran relationship finally comes to a explosive collision in this book and it was all it was cracked up to be.  "I miss you. I worry about you. I worry something stupid will happen and I won't be there and you'll be gone. I worry we won't ever get a chance and it's driving me out of my skull."   This was also the book where I finally stopped skimming when it came to the plot. By this I mean the underlying issue or mystery. As much as I love the other books and their stories, there were points when I skimmed. That didn't really happen in this book. All of Kate's investigations had me utterly enthralled, and the parts with Kate and Erra was like watching an interrogation between a smart ass and a sociopath (it would make great television, just saying).And that ending?  When they finally got to flip it and Kate took care of Curran when he was injured? Heartwarming. It gave the viewer a small glimpse of what Curran goes through when Kate was injured or sick.    "You don't pick the family you're born into. You pick the one you make. I already chose my mate and glued her ass to the chair to make sure she knew it.”  Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥