Sale Alert: Books 3 and 4 of this series were my absolute favorites which is saying something since this is one of my all time favorite UF series. This book is currently on sale 9/30/17 $1.99Yes I'm reading the Kate Daniels Series AGAIN and guess what I love it a little more every time. 3rd read and this series is still so much fun and at the top of my short list for UF/PRN. Kate/Curran and Saiman have all the best parts in this.Buddy Read/Reread June 8 with the gang at Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA)Re-read...YAY I'm finally to my favorite book in the series for my re-read before Magic BreaksReview after Re-read 7/15/14

This was my favorite in the series the first time through and I believe it safely retains that ranking this time as well. In my first read through I remember hurrying through parts to get to what was going to happen between Kate and Curran. This time I have the luxury of knowing what will become of them so I was able to focus on all the other great stuff happening as well.Some of the best parts are the great side characters. The introduction of Kate’s new best friend with four legs that looks like a mutant attack poodle was so much fun. I love animal companions in novels.


“You should name him Fezzik,” Andrea said. “Inconceivable,” I told her and took the canine traitor back to my office.
Alas the dog’s name does not end up being Fezzik but it is much cooler and l loved the reason Kate choose it for him. Once again proving our girl has brains and brawn.But my absolute favorite side character in this is Aunt B. I loved her the first time through as well but this time I really could appreciate just how smart and crafty that lady is. Nothing gets past her and she does seem to have Kate’s best interest at heart especially if it helps out the Bouda clan as well.

”Did he spend the night?”Putting claws to my throat was never a good idea. I smiled. “None of your business.”“So he did. Did he use the word ‘mate’?”“What happened between me and Curran is our own affair.”Aunt B raised her eyebrows. “Congratulations. Then you are indeed, the mate.”Why me? “That would be news to me.”“I wouldn’t be surprised if you were the last to know.” Saiman, I forgot how wonderfully charming that man/quarter god could be when he wants to be. He has some fantastic interactions with Kate and while he might have overestimated his position in a few things I love some of the scenes with him, especially when he was pulling on deaths whiskers this time around.KATE AND CURRAN!!! Yes this is the book they finally get down to the nitty gritty. It isn’t all roses and sunshine they are both alpha material and totally clash while trying to maintain their dominance. But my girl Kate once she decides what she wants she is ALL IN and nothing and no one will separate her from His Furriness.
“If you come, you better come in force because I will kill every single one of you. My hand won't shake, my aim won't falter. My face will be the last thing you'll see before you die." I jammed my knife into the table and walked out.”


Forward ho onto the next great installment of the series.If you are a fan of UF/PRN at all this is a fantastically fun series……READ IT!!!Original Review 9/28/13Before I totally fangirl over the Kate/Curran drama …oh and I totally will….I’ll attempt to talk about the rest of the book.One of the things I like about the Kate Daniels series is that the villain is always based in some sort of lore that I haven’t been overexposed to I’m not even sure if it is real or just made up. In that I feel like I’m learning a little bit more but also I don’t already have a bunch of preconceived notions of how the god/mythical creature should act and it is like starting with a clean sheet.The villain in this installment is undoubtedly the most dangerous and complex that Kate has faced to date. The bad guy carries seven plagues around with them and unleashes them at different times on Atlanta. Each one is devastating and causes incredible havoc. They also have some strange similarities in power to Kate and she doesn’t know how to control her power nearly as well and needs to learn fast.Hugh is busy gathering information on Kate to make sure he knows everything about her before presenting her to Roland and is biding his time through this newest crisis. Kate knows that soon she will have to face her father and is desperately struggling with either going it completely alone or letting people into her life. But to do that she will have to come clean and tell the people closest to her who she really is.
You can’t smelt happiness out of a lie. The world doesn’t work that way.
The character I most enjoyed this book beside the new addition of the attack poodle and Kate and Curran or course was Aunt B. She is sneaky, manipulative, intelligent an opportunist and at times even the voice of reason. I really like the way she runs her clan of hyenas and how she interacts with Kate. Aunt B is the alpha that you definitely do not want to get on the wrong side of. The deal she makes with Kate is one that benefits Kate but also helps her. I like how she is an example and a strong female character without being portrayed exclusively as a bitch. The plot arc was one of the strongest of the series and delved into the magic of the world Kate lives in even more. This is probably the strongest book in the series to date. Okay on to the fangirling of the romance aspect of this book. There may be a few minor spoilers don’t read on if you don’t want to know.Cat courting practices are interesting to say the least and a little dangerous it seems to any that stand to close…ehmm Saiman cough cough. I was worried at the beginning of the story that the minor misunderstanding between Kate and Curran was going to derail them for an entire book (I’ve seen it done in other series and I’m not a fan) but no worries all is made well again before the end.Kate miserable without Curran in her life decides to try to play by his rules and it is about time. I loved that she finally decided, this is what I want, and took charge. Even if later she doubts herself and her choices I admire the initial push in the right direction. There are some very good steamy scenes and I love that everything isn’t roses for them right after. They have distinctly different personalities and wants. Curran is desperate to protect Kate and Kate is desperate to run into the face of danger and sacrifice herself if needed. But tenderness and vulnerability are definitely there at the blooming of their relationship.
“People think I built the Pack, because I'm the guy who has the welfare of all shapeshifters in mind. They're wrong. Everything I built, I did so that when I mate and have children, nobody can touch my family. (...) I built all this so I can protect you.”
Plus being Mated to the Beast Lord isn’t all glamorous. You live in a glass house always surrounded by people watching looking for an edge something to give them the upper hand looking for any weakness to exploit. I couldn’t believe how fast some of the pack turned after the main battle. I’m ecstatic that Kate and Curran have finally made some progress on this front since the tension between them was killing me. Like the end of other books in this series it really just made me want more. I can’t wait to see what will happen to the main Alpha’s next.