8.5 out of 10How do you fairly rate a classic? I flipped flop back and forth between an 8.5 and 9 repeatedly. This is one of my favorite works of all time but there are some clear flaws.The good - Raymond Feist is one of the great fantasy authors of the 1980s and he absolutely built an epic fantasy world that rivals the best. Magician is an exceptionally long book and despite its title has many protagonists from an orphan who becomes the titular magician to his best friend who becomes a warrior with few peers, a Duke who lovingly raises his children and is the picture of a good ruler who still has secrets that may shape the Kingdom's future. This only scratches the surface of all the characters who you are introduced in this first book. The cast list is large but never feels overwhelming. For those who choose to continue in the world, many of these characters will return, but Feist continually introduces new heroes in each series and each one has their unique qualities.This is classic fantasy. That means if you are expecting sex and violence to be thrust in your face, look elsewhere. As the name Riftwar implies there is war aplenty but don't expect gruesome descriptions. Feist follows the approach that most authors of his time period did and does not focus on such matters. That makes this work appropriate for readers of teen years and even younger if they are advanced enough.There are tons of feats of derring do. Classic creatures like elves and dwarves with Feists unique spin on each. Preists of varied gods and the hints of threats that could end universes. All of these things combine to create a fun and fascinating journey through a world that you quickly realize you are just scratching the surface. This work is epic in scope and length and sets up an entire universe to be explored.What keeps it from perfection are issues that plague most books of this age. The characters while deeper than they appear at first glance clearly hold to common tropes of epic fantasy. Female characters are particularly problematic by modern standards as are many of the relationships. Feist puts the feudal system on an underserved pedestal when you consider the problems that feudalism creates. Critics will point out the glorification of Western European society while the clearly Eastern Asian inspired Tsurani are initially painted as warmongering enemies. This is resolved in the second half of the book but whether these things are deal breakers depends on the reader.For fans of epic fantasy, Magician will introduce you to a wide and varied world that is well worth visiting.