I wanted to like this book so bad. I quite enjoyed the first one, I thought Beautiful Creatures was a much needed break from the tedious plots in YA fantasy fiction. This one, well, not so much.Let me get my gripes out of the way right off the bat. What’s it called when in a plot the protagonist is faced with an insurmountable problem and then all the sudden the author creates a seemingly random solution without any prior mention of the solutions existence? I know there is a name for this but I can’t remember it. For example the protagonist is faced with a army of zombies intent upon his brains with his back to a cliff with no other option but to jump to his death or be eaten, and then all the sudden an eagle swoops down and saves him. Where this eagle came from or why he would want to save the protagonist has not been hinted to or mentioned prior to this point. Whatever this is called, this technique was way overused in Beautiful Darkness. It's called Deus ex machina. (thank you Chance)One of my favorite things in Beautiful Creatures was Lena and her relationship/interactions with Ethan. In this installment in the Caster Chronicles Lena was a big bitch and her and Ethan were hardly around each other at all until the end, so 2 of the things that made this series great in my eyes were eliminated. And what was up with Liv, did anyone else really like her only to have Ethan break her heart and ruin her future? That part didn’t sit well with me at all.On the positive side, There were some cool action scenes in this book, but not as many as I was hoping for. Amma is still awesome, she is still one of my favorite characters. I want to try her pies! Of course there is Macon, who can say no to a book with a suave southern gentleman? And Link just simply cracks me up. I really do love the characters in these books. That, and because I liked the first one is why I am going to give it 3 stars instead of 2. I don’t know if I will read the Beautiful Chaos. At least, I am not planning on rushing off to the book store or library to get it. I will wait and see if it is released in audiobook format at my library and then if I have nothing else to read, I will check it out.