4.5/5 StarsIt was so nice being back with some of the characters I loved from the original  Raven Cycle  series. I didn't think I was going to love a story that focused only on the Lynch brothers because I thought that everything between them was pretty much said in the previous series, but how wrong I was!The bonds that keep them together are so strong, stronger than so many things. It's mesmerizing to read about them and how much love they have for each other. Yes, I'm also talking about Declan and Ronan, even though they may not be ready to admit it out loud. Speaking of Ronan, I didn't realize how much I missed him until I started reading this book! He's such a complex character who never ceases to amaze me and intrigue me. His abilities are only getting stronger and I'm really looking forward to see him realize his full potential. I also very much enjoy his relationship with Adam. When Ronan's with Adam, he allows himself to be vulnerable and to be truly seen by someone, and if this doesn't make you cry I don't know what does. The moments they spent together were some of my favourite parts of this book, even though they were only a few and far between. I needed more Adam in this book, I want him more involved in the story. I know he's at Harvard to make his dreams come true, but he can be helpful to the cause and so we need to see him more in the next installment.  Yes, I'm purposefully ignoring the fact that Ronan didn't hear from him at the end of the book. In my mind Parrish is safe and sound and he probably didn't answer because he was busy listening to his sociology notes, that's what I need to believe in order not to cry.  The plot was very interesting, even though it makes my poor heart ache, I hate to see my dear characters in danger. Running away from people who can literally find you thanks to visions is no easy task and I'm really curious to see how this stroyline will play out. Bryde is now finally in the picture and I really hope he's going to teach Ronan and Hennessy how to survive this mess.I think this book left us with a lot of unanswered questions, especially regarding Declan's mother, Niall's copy and the Lace. I know this is only the first book in the series and so I trust Maggie to give us some of the answers in the second one. I also really hope to see more of Jordan and Declan's relationship develop. I don't how exactly how it happened, but I've become someone who likes Declan, I'm as shocked as you are, trust me. I think it's because I definitely understand him and his choices and decisions a lot more now. And finally Matthew, the boy with the softest golden curls, deserves a mention in this review. He's obviously full of questions and the only things I wish for him are to find some peace of mind and also to get along with his brothers even after the discovery of this big secret. Overall it was a great start to this new series. I don't know exactly what the future holds for these characters, but I'm pretty sure they're going to have to fight tooth and nail in order to get to it.