Over the past year, I’ve become quite immersed in Maggie’s Stiefvater’s writing, enough to say The Dream Thieves has become one of my favourite books of all time. Unfortunately, since said book, I’ve felt a downward trend in what once contained a lot of love and magic for me.  Call Down The Hawk is a spin-off focused on Ronan Lynch – a boy with the ability to bring anything he wishes back from his dreams – and how he is coping without his friends, who have gone on a year-long road trip, and his boyfriend Adam, who has traded his small town life for Harvard University. Meanwhile, another dreamer, Hennessey, is trying to cope with the terrors her head manifests while a woman named Carmen Farooq Lane is on search for more people like Ronan/Hennessey – after all, the world’s going to end and it can only be because of dreamers, right?I came into Call Down the Hawk with lowered expectations. I was warned by other readers that this would be a very different tone to the Raven Cycle – which honestly, I was fine with, considering the underwhelming finish to the series. But I was still intrigued to pick this series up because 1. I love the characters, 2. The writing is superb, and 3. Steifvater’s brain is literally a goldmine for magical, quirky and original stories. There is no limit in regards to imagination when it comes to dreamers since they can literally manifest anything they want. And yes, the tone was different from The Raven Cycle – but when was different meant to be boring? The weakest part for me with The Raven Cycle was the plot, or the lack of it at least. This apparently is a trait in her other books, so I came into Call Down the Hawk for the writing, characters and world more than anything. Unfortunately, The Raven Cycle made up for this lack of plot with its characters, who are beloved by most readers I’ve met.  Call Down the Hawk does not contain the chemistry or the brilliant characters that made the original series. The dialogue, the relationships, most of it fell flat. This book also happens to contain possibly the blandest character by Steifvater since the villain in the The Raven Boys. What was his name? I can’t really remember. But I felt his characterisation was better done than Farooq-Lane’s, and we got to spend a lot more time with her, unfortunately. I suppose she’s a good place to start with, since her story was the only one expanded the world. Carmen Farooq-Lane is working to save the world by finding dreamers who will eventually be murdered by one of her co-workers. She’s charged with taking care of a Visionary – someone who can see the future – to find more dreamers. Sounds kind of fun, maybe, until you realise what a bland character both her and the Visionary, Parsifal Bauer, are. And the amount of page time, they took up. Once again, it’s a case of 1. Finish a good chapter, 2. Flip the page, 3. Groan when you see who it is. I can barely describe her or Parsifal. Were they supposed to be funny? Make us care for them? No, they were boring and they stayed boring. It didn’t help that their storyline was possibly the only one with real relevance to the bigger plot. A character(s) I can say I did get intrigued in was  Jordan and  Hennessey. Hennessey’s a dreamer who doesn’t want to dream. Every time she does, she gets a little closer to death, or something else. I don’t think I can go into detail without spoiling anything, so I’ll just say she was farrrrrr better than Farooq-Lane and Parsifal, though honestly, that bar is lower than my foot. And Ronan Lynch. What to say? I feel like people may not like me for this, but I was kind of indifferent to him in this book? Ronan was always probably my second favourite, overshadowed by Adam Parrish, but in this book…I just don’t think he was as interesting as he used to be. Maybe it’s that he’s more mature, or older, though he still seemed young to me. I suppose interesting things did happen to Ronan – his dreams for me were always highlights – some of them encounters with a very interesting figure named Bryde, and those encounters just happened to be my favourite part of the book. It’s just with re-treaded inner monologue after inner monologue, I’m waiting for something different, something as captivating as the Ronan I used to know. A book can’t always survive on the complexities of thoughts, and I guess I just expected bigger things for him than what happened. And that can easily be resolved in the next book – but then what exactly was the point of this one then, other than establishing other characters that had more intriguing backgrounds? Adam, was actually in this more than I thought he was, which is always welcome. Once again, the chemistry between the two of them didn’t hit for me the way it used to. It could be down to his brief appearances, or the fact we don’t get Adam’s perspective, which I love. Ultimately, I still think the two of them are a #1 Power Couple, but it just wasn’t shown in this book, which I guess is fair enough, since one of Ronan’s biggest issues is the distance between him and Adam.Declan and Matthew, Ronan’s brothers, also get more focus in this book, but once again, it’s only a so-so deal. Declan’s probably up there with Hennessey, and possibly more interesting than Ronan in this book. Matthew, I find boring and underdeveloped, personally. The “he’s so lovable” trick gets old after a little while, along with Declan’s “he’s so boring.”Personally, I think I’ll keep this review short, since now that I think of it, there isn’t really much to say. Not much actually happened in this book, and the bigger things that I wanted to see, were always a promise of “later” a.k.a “in the next book.” I love the swirling mystery and magic of Maggie’s writing, but there just wasn't much to justify my interest in this book. The characters were only okay, the plot was uninteresting, not much got done, and the chemistry/natural dialogue/humor/relationships were missing. When it comes to the characters, the book feels kind of dry, maybe soulless. As I said, the writing was supreme and as intriguing as ever, but how long can a series run without plot? There were some really cool angles and twists opened up towards the end of the book and I will pick up the next one up out of loyalty and hope more than anything. It’s just this book literally could have no limits when it comes to plots, and yet it felt more mundane than I expected. Mentions of the Gangsey were fun (no mention of Noah, or Henry though). Maybe I would’ve liked this more if it were shorter, since the length seemed about 20,000 words too much. I considered taking a break between The Raven Cycle and this, but I’m glad I didn’t let my hope build up. Such a shame, because there is a lot of good in here, but it’s just too long and overdrawn.My final thoughts. Don’t read this without reading The Raven Cycle first. This does not work as a “you can pick me up without knowing anything” book. If you were disappointed with The Raven King, you’ll probably be disappointed for this. If you’re here for the writing, world, and characters as I am, the latter unfortunately does not deliver, but the other two definitely do.Maybe others will like it, but for me the word is “underwhelming.” (I may edit this later, as I am alarmed by the length of the review. It seems weird how so little stuck out to me.)