Another great addition to the Cosmere. Brandon Sanderson needs to get busy writing the sequel to Warbreaker. I really need to know what happens next ASAP.OK! To be honest, I was a little skeptical of Warbreaker for about the first 100 pages. This has to be the slowest beginning to any Sanderson book I have read to date. Once the politics and characters personalities starting taking shape I got more invested, but was still searching for that WOW factor I always feel in Sanderson's works. Well, it finally came in the last sequence of the book. The last 20% had me on the edge of my seat. DAMN! Sanderson knows how to end a book. Here I was thinking this was 3 stars for 80% of the story and then all hell breaks loose, and I didn't want it to end. Now I am sitting here wondering how long I will have to wait on book 2. I will be stalking Brandon's website waiting for the Warbreaker 2 icon to appear in his current projects. I am glad I decided to read Warbreaker as soon as I finished Oathbringer. Otherwise, I'm not sure if I would have caught the easter eggs hidden in the story. They didn't seem to subtle since I read these back to back, but it was so excited when I noticed them. Now, I have so many questions as to how these stories tie together. It makes me want to go read the Mistborn series or Elantris again right away. I'm sure there is something or things I didn't notice the first time. Sanderson is so sneaky, and it makes reading his books even more fun. As I said above, the story didn't really grab my interest until the politics and characters personalities starting taking shape. The political system of Hallandren was interesting and strange. The common people actually get to interact with their gods. Albeit in a controlled environment. The main characters were a mixed bag. I really enjoyed Lightsong and Viviana's storylines, but Siri's was a little boring until over halfway into the book. Sanderson did a really good job with keeping the reader on their toes too with some sudden twists and revelations. I'm really anxious to see were the story goes from here. I'm happy to say I ended up really enjoying Warbreaker. I was really worried for a while. I never considered DNF'ing it, but slow starts can sometimes kill my enjoyment of a book. Once the story picked up the pace though it just kept building momentum. I'm pretty sure all Sanderson fans have probably read this since it has been out for a few years. If you enjoy political intrigue and character driven stories with twists and turns, give Warbreaker a try. Don't let the slow start fool you. The effort definitely pays off. Also, I would recommend reading The Stormlight Archive books before reading this. You don't want to miss out on the hidden easter eggs. 4 stars ****