**Spoilers**In the past 72 hrs, I've read in excess of 2600 kindle pages by Sanderson and let me tell you, it's been an immersion of epic proportion. This author is one level above genius. The prose, the world-building, the characters, and exposition. All brilliantly done.I digress.Once I finished the Mistborn trilogy, I dove into Warbreaker anticipating an equally exhilarating experience.Unlike the Mistborn series, however, Warbreaker read like it was written in parts, with long intervals between each serial. The pacing was incredibly slow, crawling even. The character development lacked a cohesive trajectory. The plot(s) had holes the size of Moon craters. It says a lot when the only interesting characters in a book are; a Sword, and a God-King who is mute. Meanwhile, there were a whole other bunch of major and minor characters all vying for space and relevance. For a 500+ page book, the plot and characters need to be exceptional. I need action and suspense and great dialogue to keep me entranced; however, and excepting Nightsong- the Sword-, everything else was underwhelming.I was lost. What's the point, I kept saying. Breaths that can be transferred and used to animate inanimate objects. Great!An imminent war between two kingdoms- Hallandren and Idris. Yesss!A thief who is more than he seems. Gods who do nothing but play sinister games. Two princesses who play vital roles in halting said war. Enemies who want war at all cost. Dissensions within the palace. Varied tangents, all meandering toward a climax; however, there were many unanswered questions.a) The author should have shown us THAT last scene between Lightsong and the mute God-King.b) I needed an explanation for Vasher's belated GOD powers. c) Why didn't the King of Idris attempt to find Vivenna? d) Why the urgency for the union between Siri and Susebron? The rationale for their union was flawed, a massive plot hole that kept on giving.Overall, I GOT the story. I saw what the author wanted me to see, but there were many incongruent parts which made this a tad bit tedious.I probably would have enjoyed it more had I not read Vin's and Elend's story in the Mistborn trilogy. Maybe my expectations were too high.