There is always more to know, more to lean. The world is vast and wondrous strange, and there are more things beneath the stars than even the archmaesters of the Citadel can dream.White WalkersThis book is highly recommended for anyone who loves the Game of Thrones books.We begin by learning about the First Men, the Giants and the Children of the Forest. The races that initially lived in what was Westeros, moving into the events that shaped Westeros as we know it, including the rise of the dragons, and the coming of the Targaryens and Andals. I did enjoy learning about the Children of the Forest, and what it must have been like living at a time where dragons and their riders ruled.The book then moves to the reign of the Targaryens in Westeros, including the Dance of the Dragons, and finally the fall of the Targaryens where Robert Baratheon took the throne. There were many names here that I recognized from the books or the show, but didn't have a lot of details, and I enjoyed learning more about why Maegor was known as Maegor the Cruel, or Aerys as Aerys the Mad King.The book then delves into the histories of the Seven Kingdoms, and the families that lived there, the bloody battles for supremacy and the decisions that wiped out entire family lines. There were some familiar family lines traced down through the centuries. Tarth, Tully, Stark, Lannister, Baratheon, Tarly, Martell are all present. Harrenhal is destroyed.However my favorite parts in this book were on the places not in Westeros at all, such as the Free Cities, or delving into the wilds of Sothoryos, Asshai and Yi Ti. Places that were barely touched on in the books, but fully captured my interest with their stunning descriptions and tales of wild people, dangerous creatures and strange magic.AsshaiWhile occasionally the sheer number of names caused my eyes to glaze over, seeing some familiar faces, as well as the stunning drawings and incredible writing brought me back. It is a great backstory to the families we know and love (or hate), as well as the places they've taken us or have yet to take us.LorathCross posted at Kaora's Corner.