The World of Ice and Fire is hands down the prettiest book that I own. I can see myself taking it down occasionally, flipping through it lovingly, possibly even referencing it now and then. Heck, I'm even considering buying a fancy little coffee table, just so I could use it as a support for the book.When it comes to its (written) content however, I was a bit disappointed, though that's not necessarily the book's fault. For all that I don't see myself as this big ASOIAF fan, I do enjoy watching videos on some of the craziest fan theories. My favorite is a rather grizzly secret of Winterfell and the Starks. With that in mind, I was looking forward to finding out more about Bran the Builder and the Night King. Unfortunately, such information would've been found in a book about myths and legends, rather than a history treatise.Names such as Brandon the Builder, Garth Greenhand, Lann the Clever, and Durran Godsgrief are names to conjure with, but it is likely that their legends hold less truth than fancy.Still, there was some interesting stuff to be had here, such as: Aegon the Conquerror not being a particularly good ruler. Although he was an excellent war lord, it was his nephew, Jahaeris I, who had consolidated the conquered lands. Other random tidbits I enjoyed were the stories about the mistresses of Aegon IVth, the weird mazes left behind in Lorath, or the mysterious abandoned cities from the continent of Sothoryos.For the most part however, the reading experience was a rather boring one. If I often found the main books tedious to get through, a history treatise didn't have a remote chance with me. First, I could never seem to remember the various petty kings from before the conquest. Even though they later got rehashed, in a more thorough historical account of each of the seven kingdoms. Then, there was the lengthy saga of the Dance of Dragons, which in my mind lasted hundreds of years, instead of just three... which is probably why I remember mostly nothing aside from people and dragons dying left, right and center. Suffice to say, that I didn't technically read the entire book, skipping the parts about the Reach, the Stormlands, and Dorne... as well as those about Yi Ti and Asshai. Then again, I watched enough Youtube videos on the latter two, so I probably didn't miss anything.Score: 3/5 starsThis book's biggest asset is the gorgeous art it features. Its second biggest asset is making me look forward to books 6 and 7 (and possibly 8?) in the Song of Ice and Fire series. Oh, and it also made me realize how much I didn't need to read The Tales of Dunk and Egg or A Targaryen History.