This could be considered The Silmarillion of the Ice and Fire series and to some extent there are many similarities between Tolkien’s massively ambitious backstory and this. Both provide depth and further explanation and development of an impressive, awe inspiring world building by their creator. But whereas Tolkien’s work is more lyric and fable like in its approach, reveling in the mythic and legendary, Martin’s history is just that, a history of his creation of the civilizations and peoples of Westeros and Essos, and then to chronicle all the known world of Martin’s Ice and Fire imagination.Told as by a well learned Maester of Oldtown and thoroughly researched using all of the available past histories in the libraries there, this treatise on how Westeros came to be what it is demonstrating another example of Martin’s phenomenal powers of creation and narrative ability.We learn about how the First Men came to Westeros as well as the Andal invasions centuries later and how the great houses came to power. Martin also traces the origins of the peoples from Essos and examines in minute detail to histories of the Free Cities and then goes on to explore details and histories of peoples only passingly introduced in the main storyline.Evident is Marin’s inspiration and fantastic interpretation of the expansion and migrations of people from mainland Europe into the British Isles. The First Men are the Celts and the Andals a conglomerate of Saxons and Normans. The ancient Valyrian Freehold empire could be analogous to either Rome or a realization of lost Atlantis, with the Old Empire of Ghis perhaps corresponding with a Mesopotamian or Egyptian society.I also noticed an apparent homage to Lovecraft in the origins of the Iron Islands (though the people are certainly patterned after Viking cultures). An observant reader will also notice references to Edgar Rice Burroughs in Martin’s descriptions of the mysterious southern continent. In his portrayals of the Ibanese and Southern peoples, Martin seems to be suggesting a scenario where related but distinct branches of humanity have grown up alongside and contemporaneous with humanity as if Neanderthals had continued to exist and develop with us.Most compelling, though, was my thoughts concerning the progress of this story and series. Published in 2014, this is Martin’s sole contribution to the literary series since the HBO series began. Having read the five earlier books and observed the storylines of the TV series, it seems obvious that the two have diverged paths and Martin now has two distinct narratives. There is no way Martin can get from the end of A Dance with Dragons to where the show is now. Will books 6 and 7 form a separate series, distinct from the canonical theatrical version? Will he finish the book series at all? Or will he continue to rather explore a backstory that can be entertaining without being contradictory to the popular show?All good questions and ones fans would like to see answered sooner rather than later.