So, I spent almost six months reading this book. That length of time would seem to indicate that I was trudging through it without finding any enjoyment. But that couldn’t be further from the truth. I had been told by a reliable source (Petrik) that this was a book to be savored in slow, small bites, so that’s what I did. I read ten or twenty pages a week, treating it more like a textbook than a work of fiction. That was exactly the right approach for me.“It is said with truth that every building is constructed stone by stone, and the same may be said of knowledge, extracted and compiled by many learned men, each of whom builds upon the works of those who preceded him. What one of them does not know is known to another, and little remains truly unknown if one seeks far enough.”The lands of Westeros and beyond have a bloody history, while still retaining quite a lot of mystery. Martin did a wonderful job presenting its stories in ways both academic and skeptical, the perfect mingling to believably portray a Maester’s voice. I loved his footnote-like inserts, giving a bit of extra information on topics the fictional author found particularly interesting. Through this book, Martin and his coauthors demonstrate how much vaster Westeros and the other lands in this world truly are, and how much is still left to explore. “There is always more to know, more to see, more to learn. The world is vast and wondrous strange, and there are more things beneath the stars than even the archmaesters of the Citadel can dream.” A World of Ice and Fire is rich in lore and history, and even richer in gorgeous artwork. The maps and illustrations were absolutely what made this book so special. It’s one of the most beautiful books I own (thanks again, Haïfa!), and it’s something that I’ll treasure. But the art, while stunning, would not have been nearly as impactful if Martin had not crafted so remarkable a history. I can think of no other author outside of Tolkien and Pratchett who has crafted a world so well developed and imbued with such a depth of lore. It’s honestly super impressive, and I heartily recommend that anyone who loves ASoIaF find themselves a copy.