EDIT: Strap in yo seatbelts because Fire and Blood is coming out this month, and ya gurl is fucking shooketh!HOLY GUACAMOLE, THIS BOOK SNATCHED MY WIG!I never thought it would take me over two months to read this illustrated encyclopedia on Westeros and the lands beyond the Sunset Kingdom but hot damn, this book is thorough. Just FYI: I'd only recommend it to people who are absolutely trash for the book series. This is nothing for the occasional reader, this is for hardcore fans who would immediately exchange their lives to spend a few minutes in the world of ice and fire.From the Age of Heroes to the coming of the First Men; from the arrival of Aegon the Conqueror with his dragons to the fall of the Mad King, this is the dramatic backdrop to the struggle for power in a game of thrones. This book truly is a book nerd's dream. The writing is wonderfully fitting for a book that is essentially written like a history book. The illustrations are FUCKING SUBLIME. I could literally cry whenever I look at Justin Sweet's depiction of Rhaegar and Robert meeting at the Ruby Ford.I MEAN LOOK AT MY TRASH CHILDREN DESTROYING EACH OTHER'S LIVES. Good times. There's nothing like a little bloodshed between second cousins, amirite? (I'm not crying, you're crying. *starts hysterically sobbing*)It was fantastic to learn the untold stories from so many people whose names are dropped in the main series. Additionally, I loved reading between the lines and finding hints to the fates of the characters we're already familiar with. Ya gurl was highkey shook whilst reading this! My favorite discovery was definitely Nymeria's tale. She was the Princess of the Rhoynar and the biggest badass of them all. When the Valyrian Freehold conquered the Rhoyne with their dragons, Nymeria led the surviving Rhoynar into exile from Essos. That woman single-handedly led a fleet of thousands of ships across the Narrow Sea to Dorne, where she took Lord Mors Martell as her husband, and ensured that House Martell would rule Dorne ever since. NOTHING BUT RESPECT FOR MY PRESIDENT! (Arya's direwolf is named after her btw!) All in all, this book was everything I could have hoped for and more. I will definitely peruse it time and time again to revisit my favorite tales (especially the chapter on Braavos), look up useful information for my crackpot series and marvel at the stunning art work. 10/10