And its finally here... The prequel to 'The Priory of the Orange Tree'.Rich in content, with real depth to the human emotion on display and personal passion portrayed through the characters. Wonderful for the tension and mistrust created through the political intrigue and daring in its ambition and depiction of such a vast expanse of worlds. Overall an impressive story of three powerful woman whose lives become entwined as Shannon breathes fire and life into this incredible story of survival, love, and honour.A desirable and engrossing fantasy that is intense, dangerous, fascinating but compelling and also extraordinary.A few Comments on the Plot There is too much in this book to write a credible summary of the story and its plots. So here are a few snippets of what to expect..The Priory’s existence is threatened, the dragons that have been asleep for a long time are awakening, Sabran the Ambitious has married the new King of Hróth, in the hope to save both realms from ruin, Dumai must awaken the gods and protect herself from the person intent on destroying her and when Dreadmount erupts these three women must be prepared and capable of protecting their people from its devastating threat of extinction.A battle of minds, queens of strategy and a conclusion that must be decisive and fitting.“A queen should learn the ways of watching. Like a falcon, she waits for her moment to strike. She also knows when she need not strike at all – when her shadow, her presence, is more than enough.”Love, pregnancy, greed, ambition, betrayal, survival, war, dragons, magic, grief, chaos and adventure is what you get from ‘A Day of Fallen Night’.✨✨✨✨✨ What I loved about this book  - The intricate world building mainly from the east to west was so impressive. This was such an ambitious tale that expanded the story into spherical regions with their own traditions, political landscape, religions and practices, myths as well as cultures. - The three main female characters were all equally adorable, admirable, and deserving of a central role. All very different but it was how their lives became entwined was the main appeal for this book even though their story, independent of each other, was unique, eventful, but also powerful.- The sheer effort and commitment in writing such a comprehensive book is to be commended, but it does not stop there because Shannon also provides the images of the global landscape, an explanation of the characters and their roles and even a glossary of terms to help the reader. - There is a love story for everyone and as a strong feminist story this would appeal to all women.✨✨✨ What I enjoyed less about this book- Whilst I fell in love with many of these characters there was just too many to fully appreciate them all and quite a few added little to the overall story.- It was just too long and at times overly complex. I say that but then I am obsessed with the extent and scale of the storytelling. Although I would suggest that it doesn’t take 850 pages to achieve that.- I would have preferred more moments of drama and surprise in the middle of the book to lift things a little because it felt everything was being saved to the end and the conclusion of this series. In such a long book we needed more dramatic moments in the middle I feel. Kill off a few of those key characters for example, explode their world or introduce a scenario of checkmate.In all epic. A multi cultured and multi-layered story that was so captivating, immersive, and dramatic. A world that was so intricately depicted but vast in its scope. A kaleidoscope of colours, traditions, and characters. A series of plots to enthral and captivate and written in a dream like way that was also compelling and believable. What more could a person want except less pages and more action in the middle. A wonderful fantasy.And a quote that resonates with me .. .“We could start by not scorning one another for our beliefs, or lack of them."