Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness oh my goodness. Oh. My. Goodness. Gracious. If I could give this more stars, I certainly would. It was just such a great end to the trilogy, and perhaps the best I've read from the fabulous Tamora Pierce herself (and this is saying a lot, because I will never ever ever think something could surpass my absolute love for the Song of the Lioness Quartet). But yes, she has definitely outdone herself this time.Don't get me wrong, I think Alanna's story will always be my favorite, hands down, and this was why I loved Mastiff in the first place. It was the past that would lead to Alanna's future. That said, the book was about Beka and her Hunt. And it was the most splendid Hunt imaginable. I was laughing and breathless and flailing throughout the story. I widened my eyes with disbelief from the plot turns and twists, giggled at the romantic interludes, blanched at the detailed descriptions of the murders and the bodies, cheered on at the battles. I have to admit, I kind of teared a few times, too (mostly at the end, but I was expecting the big unravel).The epilogue was probably what set me over the edge, really. It's probably the only Epilogue I actually liked when it comes to stories. But I won't say more in the matter.The characters were all lovely. No, really. Pierce has always had a way of creating such fantastic roles, and Farmer was just a bundle of fierce awesomeness. Sabine and Tunstall I loved, Achoo was a dear, Pounce was his usual self, and Beka Cooper minced no words. I loved her cursing, I really did. The Hunt could have been great with just ordinary characters, but Tamora Pierce gave us extraordinary ones.And most importantly: I loved that she'd brought the magic back. I've already raved about Farmer so much that I almost think I'm cheating on Numair for it. But I absolutely loved, loved, loved that she featured mages prominently in this story. I knew it was lacking a bit in the first two novels, but Mastiff more than made up for it in the end.Oh my goodness. That is what I call storytelling.Okay, I need to actually stop now so I can breathe in a paper bag and stop flailing.