Me, in a crowd of Schwab fans: so am I like not allowed here anymore or whatI mean, this isn’t a bad 3-star, and I didn’t HATE it. It’s so atmospheric and creepy, in Schwab fashion of course, and I did enjoy it. I think one of Schwab’s best writing talents is her ability to create fantastically strange and mysterious concepts, and that’s clearly evident in this book. It’s about a girl named Cass who can pass between the worlds of the living and the dead, and can see ghosts. This happened after she almost drowned, which is when her dead best friend Jacob showed up as well.When I first read the blurb, I was in love with the concept of the story. A girl who can see ghosts? Traveling to a city full of them? With a ghost best friend? Then meets another person who can see ghosts? HELL YEAH.Cass and Jacob were interesting characters to read about, and I loved their friendship dynamic. I found Jacob the most intriguing (he’s a GHOST. he’s DEAD) and I’m sad that we didn’t get to know more of him in the book. I didn’t feel super connected to Cass or Jacob, but I liked them enough. The villain though, the Raven in Red—I loved her SO much. She steals the souls of children for herself and that’s like 100% My Thing™. We got the perfect amount of backstory from her and I adored it.I also LOVED that this was set in Edinburgh; if I’m correct, each book in the series takes place in a different city, which I think is super cool. I loved getting to know different places around the city and it definitely added to the atmosphere of the book.But god, the most disappointing thing about City of Ghosts was the lack of good plot development. I’m just… so worked up over this for no reason??? Like COME ON. Of all things, I’m so surprised it was THIS that disappointed me.I can’t say much without spoiling but it’s just like. the main conflict was kind of introduced in the beginning? And then it got smothered by other things. The issue is that there are kind of two plots here (the Raven in Red one is specifically for this book, while the “figuring out what this whole ghost thing is” plot is an overarching one for the whole series) and the plot for the whole series just… took over.Basically, the first 2/3 of the story were filled with 1) exploring the city, 2) trying to figure out the full scope of Cass’s abilities (and responsibilities), and 3) buildup. It was relevant to the series as a whole, but it wasn’t relevant to the specific book, and it ended up bothering me a lot, because there was just no focus on the specific book’s plot.Usually, if a plot isn’t good, I’m pretty much fine with it, as long as I like the characters and their development was good. And while I like how Cass and Jacob turned out at the end of the book, and the villain, I was really disappointed by how little we got to know a side character named Lara.Lara is an Indian girl who can also move between the worlds of the living and dead, and I really thought we’d see more of her. In reality, she showed up briefly in the first third, came back in the last third, and disappeared. The blurb says that after Cass meets Lara, she starts to question what she can truly do, and it seems like Lara is basically just a plot device. WHICH IS ANNOYING.Also Lara is pretty much the diverse rep for this whole book so. :) :)))Overall, City of Ghosts is an atmospheric, creepy book that will definitely keep you engaged with its fast pace and intriguing characters, but the lack of proper plot development is something that really bothered me and kept me from enjoying it more.I really do think that this is a “it’s me, not you” scenario, so I’m really confident that other people will like it more! It’s got that dark vibe that all Schwab books have, though fortunately, there is no heartbreak. (Besides mine, of course, for having to feel this disappointment.):: rep :: Indian side character:: content warnings :: death (mostly of children), abduction (mostly of children)// buddy read with banshee #1 and banshee #2Thank you to Scholastic for sending me a copy of the book in exchange for an honest review! This did not affect my opinion in any way.