I never cared much for fairy tales, although Brothers Grimm versions were much cooler than the sanitized Disneyfied princess dreams they have become for generations of mostly girl children. Disney princesses made my kid self scoff judgmentally while I chose to watch Jacques Cousteau instead. Yeah, I was a little brat. “I used to see Sleeping Beauty as my wildest, most aspirational fantasy—a dying girl who didn’t die, a tragedy turned into a romance. But suddenly I saw her as my mere reflection: a girl with a shitty story. A girl whose choices were stolen from her.”Recently I also started feeling a bit annoyed seeing the ever-present trend of fairytale retellings — “Come up with an original story!” my brain screams while understanding that the built-in audience for well-loved childhood stories will always be lucrative. So I was a bit skeptical about this Sleeping Beauty-inspired story, but it’s *the* Alix Harrow who has written a perfect short story (“A Witch’s Guide to Escape: A Practical Compendium of Portal Fantasies” found here), and I decided to give it a chance. And you know what — it ended up entertaining enough. Not perfect, but not bad at all.“I don’t know about the moral arc of the universe, but our arcs sure as hell don’t bend toward justice. Unless we change them. Unless we grab our narratives by the ear and drag them kicking and screaming toward better endings. Maybe the universe doesn’t naturally bend toward justice either; maybe it’s only the weight of hands and hearts pulling it true, inch by stubborn inch.”Zinnia has a disease that is about to kill her, but before that happens through narrative resonance she ends up in a version of a Sleeping Beauty tale (because multiverse) and befriends a princess who’s destined for the century-long sleep and eventual prince’s kiss. Even that fate seems ok to Zinnia when compared to death — and yet she decides to help the princess, all while keeping in touch with her best friend back in our reality (and I’m figuratively dying to know who her mobile carrier is to have perfect reception between Ohio and Fantasyland.)“I start to type back an apology then pause, wondering about data rates between Ohio and wherever the hell I am and how exactly I have cell signal, before that wild hysteria bubbles over. I write sorry babe. got spider-verse-ed into a fairy tale.”This story does skew a bit young, with the “you can be anything you want to be” vibe, and finding yourself discoveries that serve a young person well, a coming-of-age in a few short Fantasyland days. It is also full of pop culture references and meme wink-winks that will feel quite dated in a few short years. And the writing itself is hyper-aware of tropes and pointedly, humorously and insistently point them out before skewering them, at times a bit too in-your-face. “I wish briefly but passionately that I’d been zapped into a different storyline, maybe one of those ’90s girl power fairy tale retellings with a rebellious princess who wears trousers and hates sewing. (I know they promoted a reductive vision of women’s agency that privileged traditionally male-coded forms of power, but let’s not pretend girls with swords don’t get shit done.)”————“At some point I suppose I should stop being surprised when the princess is more than a doe-eyed maiden, ready to faint prettily at the first sign of danger. I’m always annoyed when people are surprised that I have a personality beyond my disease, as if they expect me to be nothing but brave smiles and blood-spotted handkerchiefs.” But Harrow writes well, and somehow the meta-awareness of the tropes and pop culture hyper-referencing ended up less annoying than I feared. If anything, it’s snarkily playful which mostly worked for me.“My only friend in this entire backwards-ass pre-Enlightenment world is about to be married off to a sentient cleft chin.”The part I liked is the acknowledgment that before the bright and shiny dream of Disney princesses fairy tales were reflective of the world, subtly dark, with a lot of things hiding in plain sight. The world where “true love kiss” by a stranger actually was a rape of an unconscious woman - that kind of world. Harrow does just enough to get the point across without switching the overall tone to much darker, but it’s still there and done well.“Right now you’re thinking: this isn’t how the story goes. You might not have a degree in this shit but you’ve seen enough Disney movies and picture books to know there’s supposed to be a handsome prince and true love and a kiss, which can’t be consensual because unconscious people can’t consent, but at least it breaks the curse and the princess wakes up. But in the very oldest versions of this story—before the Grimms, before Perrault—the prince does far worse than kiss her, and the princess never wakes up.”Oh, but how much do I wish that it had gone just a bit further, for a bit more of a consequential bite instead of a playful nibble. Because when you bring up (even peripherally) a story of Sleeping Beauty in which an unconscious woman gets impregnated by her “rescuer” I hope for a bit more consequential and less pleasant theme development.Overall it’s a lighthearted ribbing on the fairytale tropes, with a requisite happy ending and a brushing by uncomfortable fairytales themes with a bit of subversion but still with enough warm fuzzies for a pleasant entertaining read.3.5 stars.————Also posted on my blog.——————My Hugo and Nebula Awards Reading Project 2022