”The monster showed up just after midnight. As they do.”Seven minutes after midnight ANDone hour after finishing the book:*sits in a pile of tissues and STILL weeps*<--- This was me on Saturday.This is me now, four days after reading the book:*sits down to write a proper review but immediately starts to cry again*I can’t write a review about this book, I just can’t!!! Heaven knows I’ve tried to, but whenever I think about “A Monster Calls” I’m tearing up again. Just to think about this book is already dangerous. It makes you feel, it causes your heart to ache, it makes your throat go tight with sadness and pain. It forces you to think!And this probably might be the most dangerous thing…”Stories are the wildest things of all, the monster rumbled. Stories chase and bite and hunt.”I can’t even tell you what exactly causes me to cry. Maybe it’s the entire book, maybe it’s the monsters painful wisdom, maybe it’s just the bitter truth?All I know is that this story moved me. It moved me on a level books rarely do and it’s one of those books you wish you never read, but at the same time you’re so glad that you actually did. Which makes absolutely no sense, but it is what it is! >_<”Your mind will believe comforting lies while also knowing the painful truths that make those lies necessary. And your mind will punish you for believing both.”No matter how old and wrinkled I’ll become, I’ll always remember this story and it will always have a place in my heart. A.L.W.A.Y.S.!So I guess what it comes down to, is that I won’t talk about this book.I won’t talk about a boy who was forced to grow up way too fast.I won’t talk about his anger and despair, about his hope and fears.I won’t talk about his crushing loneliness or his endless pain. I won’t talk about a mother who tried to do what’s best for her son.I won’t talk about her frustration and helplessness, about her worries and concerns.I won’t talk about her unconditional love for her boy nor will I talk about her courage and strength. I won’t talk about a grandmother that didn’t know how to deal with the situation.I won’t talk about her mental overload or that she was so very anxious and afraid.I won’t talk about her display cabinet or her inability to find the right words.I won’t judge her because Conor’s mother is her daughter too…. ”You’re not even going to punish me?”“What would be the point, Con?” his father said, shaking his head. “What could possibly be the point?”NO,I won’t talk about real friends and bullies.I won’t speak about teachers that did the wrong thing for the right reasons.I won’t mention kind monsters,because I won’t talk about the freaking TRUTH!!!I just won’t!Because I’m crying once again and I can’t type anymore. Because as the mother of a child to read this book was so very painful. Because the truth hurts and it’s easier to close your eyes. There are all kinds of monsters in the world,but those who make you feel…Well, those are certainly the worst. T_TThose quotes destroyed me and since they give away so much of the plot I decided to place them in a spoiler tag. Oh gosh, did they hurt. *sobs* I could relate so much to Conor’s mum and the horrible situation she had to face… To be forced to leave your own child… *cries again*“I’m sorry, son,” his mum said, tears sneaking out of her eyes now, even though she kept up her smile. “I’ve never been more sorry about anything in my life.””You be as angry as you need to be,” she said. “Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. Not your grandma, not your dad, no one. And if you need to break things, then by God, you break them good and hard.”He couldn’t look at her. He just couldn’t.“And if, one day,” she said, really crying now, “you look back and you feel bad for being so angry, if you feel bad for being so angry at me that you couldn’t even speak to me, then you have to know, Conor, you have to know that it was okay. It was okay. That I knew. I know, okay? I know everything you need to tell me without you having to say it out loud. All right?””Conor held tightly onto his mother.And by doing so, he could finally let her go.”