My least favorite of the Phedre trilogy. This is partly because I loved books 1-2, but also due to filler & easy fixes that keep the plot plodding in low gear.[spoilers]-Phedre has long been torn between Joscelin & Hyacinthe (who are both worthy -- a somewhat unusual triangle in that way), yet suddenly a long-suffering-from-afar minor character appears & is sufficient for Hyacinthe to release Phedre from her agonizing decision. WTF. I'd rather they lived in a triad, or even that one of the lads had been killed off -- which I would have hated, but at least it would've avoided this insertion of a non-entity to resolve the issue. (Seriously, this girl had NO PRESENCE whatsoever. She's the most forgettable minor character in the book, & that's a crime. Hyacinthe deserves better.)-Imriel, the mysterious son of Melisande, is too obviously 'lovable.' He even wins over Joscelin after, like, three conversations, & Joscelin has always been one of Melisande's biggest critics. Good on him for not holding her bullshit against Imriel, but still...THAT quickly? It seemed pushy on JC's part.-The Drujani are such evilly evil assholes with an evilly evil god at the helm that they come off as a sadistic cartoon -- like they were created solely for the audience to have a safe target for boos & hisses. -Every time a new place or challenge is mentioned, we know Phedre's next port of call. "Now ____ is a *terribly* unknown/dangerous peril to avoid at all costs!!" ...Gee, guess that's where they'll go. :P (This isn't new to the Phedre books, but it's more obvious & repetitive herein.)-Likewise: each new dangerous impasse has Joscelin putting his foot down & "ABSOLUTELY NOT, my love!" ...Which, of course, Phedre overrides & apologizes for later, after dragging others into her Must Do This Impossible Task martyrdom over & over. So why bother? We know she'll do it anyway, & we know he'll forgive her -- hence, no tension. But I would've liked Joscelin to stand up to Phedre's martyr complex (just once, FFS), or at least punch Melisande in the face. So...I give this 3 stars. The final confrontation to save Hyacinthe is great, & the Drujani section was gripping (despite the cartoony aspects). Side characters stand out, whether familiar like Hyacinthe, Ti-Phillippe, Ysandre, & Nicola, or new faces like Drucilla, Nesmut, Kristof, & Kaneka. I was glad to see certain storylines given proper closure. But comparatively, it disappointed. There was way too much repetitive filler + bland traveling, combined with long-winded chatter & constant reminiscing re: the first books.