I'm going to complain a bit about repetition in this series, and most of it seemed to be in this final book (which I guess makes sense as it's the culmination of this particular series), but here's my own bit of repeat-y nonsense : the plot for this one came back to me as I read it. Maybe it's like songs on the radio. You might not hear it for a decade, or think of it in that span of time, but with the sound of the melody, the lyrics are unearthed from within your brain and you can sing along. I guess it's like that. I'll stop assuming I have no recollection of things going forward. Here's hoping Imriel's Trilogy is likewise buried in my brain somewhere, too. But if not? Hey, bonus, I get to experience it a-new.Overall, though, this was maybe not the best series to binge. Carey does a good job of weaving in past events, dynamics, and more, multiple times within her books, likely because the page count is so massive that it's understandable you would forget things along the way. But if you're reading these ceaselessly, one after the other, by the third one? You're a bit tired. Not helped by the fact that even if the locales differ, it is a bit samesies in the sense that Phèdre risks all, endures all, poor Joscelin is along for the ride (because vows), they usually have a falling out (some worse, or more dramatic, than others), but eventually all is well. Queen gets mad, Queen forgives, here is your HEA. In that sense, this was the least interesting of the three because there was no real tension, we knew how things would play out almost exactly, which explains why I put this down the most of all three of them, but. But I still picked it back up.I'll admit I did skim some of the more story-based mythology as Phèdre traveled from one place to the next seeking knowledge, the Name of God, to rescue her childhood friend. It was a change of pace from the darkness and violence that we had endured prior but equally it did make for an odd balance of a story. But I think that is kind of represented by the whole series. Sex, and violence, and pain, yes, but also religion, and mythology, and learning, and knowledge. It's a complex and layered universe Carey's created and you can't say she didn't put in the work, and the endless research, in and around the more angsty romantic titilating bits. But even those have purpose. Even in the violence there's reason and understanding and it's.. well, it's a lot.I will definitely be pushing on with the various series but I am not sad to be taking a break, mayhap even for the rest of the year (little that remains of it). This isn't a series, or a universe, I could really recommend but it does compel in some ways. It is interesting. And yes, layered, in every way. I don't want to doubt my younger self but I wonder how much of this I really understand back in the day. But whatever it was, it left an impression because here I am all these years later rereading them. And I'm not mad about it.This also completes the final series on my Five Series to Finish in 2022 list. Phew. This one was a close call.3.5 stars---This review can also be found at A Take From Two Cities.