Read with all my other buddy reading addicts at Buddies Books & BaublesWell I finally finished. It’s not fair this book has an absolutely gorgeous cover and I really wanted to love it but I never really got carried away by the story. I actually set this book down and didn’t pick it up again for 3 weeks. That is unheard of for me.A few of my issues are as follows.  ❶ - I never connected with the characters really. Etta is a master violinist with stage fright who never plays the violin through the entire book. Nicholas is a black man living in a time of slavery. Even though he is a free man he has had to work very hard for his place of respect on a pirate ship. Both characters have moments of likability but overall I just never connected with either deeply. This could be because the story is told in third person but most of the dialogue is in Etta’s head so I’m not sure what the purpose of having the story be in third person is.❷- TimetravelOkay this was just not flushed out extremely well. Some people are born with an ability to be able to go through portals in time that can be opened using various notes in music in a certain combination. While I understood some of the rules of the time travel in this story some of it just didn’t make sense. Parts of it just seemed like some arbitrary rules thrown together. You can’t go back and save people, you can’t run into yourself, you can’t go beyond a certain time and half a dozen others. But for many of them there just didn’t seem to be cohesive reasons.❸ - YA TropesFirst there is the entire insta-love factor of the story, well at least it isn’t a love triangle. Etta and Nicholas just met but boom sparks fly and all that. It was maybe supposed to be a more complicated love story since his is black and she is white but I never really felt the tension of it. Nicholas spends most of his time fighting the attraction just based off social norms of his time. But Etta doesn’t really care about that so much since she is from this time. Then there is the forced we shouldn’t be together because we are from different times. It all seemed so forced and I never believed their reasoning for why things wouldn’t work out..❹ - The Story DraggedHere we are going to places in history and it should have been exciting to be in revolutionary America and England during WWII (or it could have been WWI) but I couldn’t distinguish which it was, but I found most of it to be lacking. There was no big connect to the time. They ended up in a bomb shelter in a subway for the time in England but still no big connection to the people of what was happening in each of the time jumps. I was a bit bored through most of it.❺- Etta’s initial motivationsOkay Etta wants to get back to her own time to save Alice. Well that is all well and good but Alice is a 92 year old woman and sure she still gets around well but really she is ninety it is a bit of a stretch to be that desperate to save someone who is that old. Not her mother or a sibling or best friend that had their whole life to live but someone who is older than your grandmother. I just never really got it. Sure there are other reasons that crop up as the story moves along but again I just never bought into the beginning.It did get betterThe story did get a little better towards the middle and then again at the end. But I’m sad to say that most of the things I was the most interested in where only touched on in passing. I wanted to know more about the family war that led to there only being one family in control of the portals. I also wanted to know more about the Thorns the revolutionary group that is trying to overtake the one remaining family. Finally I wanted to get more into some of the places and times they went and why some people could travel through time while others couldn’t.There are some interesting developments right at the end and a semi-shocking reveal that did make me curious about the next book. Since I’m completely OCD about many series it is entirely possible that I’ll read it. But a year is a ways off and maybe I’ll forget the interest I was feeling at the end.