4.5 StarsAlthough I’m too much of a HUFFLEPUFF to be like Alessandra or to even have the guts to do half the things she did in this book, The Shadows Between Us wooed me in all its SLYTHERIN glory.Tired of being constantly overlooked, Alessandra is determined to prove just how cunning and villainous she can be. The plan is simple:1) Woo the Shadow King.2) Marry him.3) Kill him and take his kingdom for herself.What could possibly go wrong? Nothing. Except for one scenario she’s not at all prepared to face.If that alone is not enough to sway you into reading this book, I don’t know what will! Ah, well, I guess my review will have to do the job. But if you’re still not convinced, I’ll leave it up to fate to match you up with this book.Selling Points:The ever so badass queen, Alessandra“I may be trying to win the heart of a king, but…I’m still being myself.”Even though I was side eyeing her the whole time, I was also fascinated by her. There’s something about someone being unapologetically themself that—though you don’t always approve of their ways—you can’t help but admire them. She’s such a breath of fresh air.My sweet king, Kallias“You are beautiful,” he continues. “But not so beautiful as to tempt me.”He is the male equivalent of Alessandra. He’s made of shadows and his power is really cool! Albeit sometimes also very limiting. He’s just the perfect dark broody love interest and he’s fifteen out of fifteen! (You’ll get this reference once you read the book.)The slow burn enemies to lovers“I think that when you care enough for someone, you reach a point where it’s far more painful not to have him at all than to have him and risk losing him. You realize the risk is worth it. Because happiness, however short-lived, is always worth it.”It was both excruciatingly torturous and delicious to read, and I took great pleasure in it. This book doesn’t hold a candle to TFOTA series but it’s special in its own way. The dynamic between Kallias and Alessandra reminded me of Cardan and Jude.At first, I wasn’t sure about them because I thought Alessandra bonded better with one of the male side characters. But as I got more and more of her and Kallias together, I shipped them all the way. I loved their back and forth banter, Kallias when he was being honest about his feelings, and ugh that little grovel at the end!Wonderful side characters“Aren’t we all drawn to friends in the beginning by trifling things? True bonds develop afterward, when character is revealed.”Initially, I thought with how arrogant and awful Alessandra sometimes was, she would find no genuine friendship. But the female friendship in this book is actually pretty RAD. I loved her friendliness with the other three male supporting characters as well. She’s the kind of person who would go out of her ways to help you when you needed it even though she’s got an ulterior motive for doing it.Impeccable writing“Don’t be afraid of who you are. Say what you wish. Be who you wish. Don’t try to be someone else.”This book opened with such a shocking confession from Alessandra that I was hooked from the very first page. The flow was seamless that I didn’t want to put it down. In terms of pacing, I thought it was draggy in some places. But I fell deeper for this book as I read on.Alas, this book is perfect except for one thing...How could you end me with only ONE single sentence on the very last page? I COULD REALLY DO WITH SOME EPILOGUE!! That’s not so nice of you. I’m sulky now because I want more SandrAllias! (Ignore my lame attempt at creating a ship name.) Also, some might argue that this book is predictable, lacks world building, and that the romance ruins the whole Alessandra’s “feminism and female villainy” narrative. While I agree with these assessment on some level and considering that this is only a standalone, I think this book is extremely BRILLIANT and immensely DELIGHTFUL to read. My only advice would be that you better get to this book before the hype gets to you and pollutes your brain with too high of an expectation. So keep your hopes in check, go grab yourself a copy, and read the book!