"Alessandra Stathos, that's positively despicable." He says the words like they're the highest compliment he can give me. Alessandra is sick of her life. She has always been pushed to the side while her sister gets the spotlight. But she knows she can do better. She has spent her life learning how to manipulate people to get what she wants. And now she's about to take what she knows is hers. The crown. Alessandra is going to marry the Shadow King, Kallias, and then murder him. Managing people can be tiresome, but there's still nothing more satisfying than watching people do exactly what I say.Before I started this book, I was worried about two things:1) that Alessandra would be not like other girls, and 2) that Alessandra would fall in love immediately and forget all her plans to kill Kallias, or that she wouldn't be the merciless, manipulative genius the synopsis promised. Well, neither of those points happened. Thankfully, Alessandra doesn't become a Mary Sue heroine. If she did turn into one, one of my favorite scenes in the book would have been so different. Towards the beginning of The Shadows Between Us, she waltzes into the castle where Kallias is seeing potential brides and ignores him. Instead of walking up to him, she makes him walk up to her. If she were not like other girls, she would go to the castle being like I don't need a prince, attract his attention for no real reason, and fall in love immediately. But Alessandra did all of this on purpose. It was all a scheme to attract Kallias's attention. She's not just some "intriguing" bumbling idiot. This is calculated. I love Alessandra so much. She's smart and she's evil. What more do you need? One thing I love about her is how she has a passion for sewing and fashion, but that doesn't make her any less strong. Nobody makes a big deal out of it. It's just something she loves to do, and something she's really, really good at. Her character is so consistent. It was truly a pleasure to be in her mind. She's calm, cool, and cultured. There were some little details that really brought her to life, mostly in the way she interacted with Kallias and the characters I call the Merry Thieves because they feel like characters from Chain of Gold--Petros, Rhouben, and Leandros. Speaking of them, I love the side characters. They all have distinct personalities, and it's so sweet how Alessandra slowly opens up to them. And I look at my two friends. My first real friends. I thought women were always my competitors, people to be jealous of. How wrong I was. I love Kallias. He and Alessandra are both villains, basically. They don't try to change each other, or make each other "good." They accept one another for how they are. The mutual pining killed me. The suspense is exquisite. The pacing is perfect in their relationship. I savored every moment of their interactions. They clearly respect each other greatly. Kallias lets Alessandra take care of her own business without interfering, and vice versa. I do have a few minor problems with this book. The dialogue can be a bit stilted, but that's not a huge issue. Additionally, Kallias is a pretty soft villain. He's supposed to be a conqueror but we never see him do any conquering. The reason I didn't care was because this isn't his story. It's Alessandra's. Also, there is no worldbuilding, but I actually think that did the book a favor. The place where everything happened—the castle—had a beautiful aesthetic and that was all that mattered to me. If there had been extensive worldbuilding, it would have held the book back. The synopsis makes this book sound like a romance, but it's so much more than that. It's about twisted politics, betrayal, court intrigue, and manipulation, and I loved all of it. 4.5 stars "I battle with my mind. Not weapons."____ALL. THE. STARS.I adore this book. It's a complex game of manipulation and court intrigue. Alessandra is a compelling, purely evil main character. It was a delight to be in her head.review to come...