2.25★I wanna say that this is between I liked it and it was okay. I was disappointed and here is why,“Who in the world would steal and then not keep the riches for themselves? That’s just bad business.”This book is so fucking hyped, so I had high hopes but hopes can be crushed my friend...the world is a cruel little big bitch. ♣Let's start on a positive note and talk about things that I did like. For instance, the starting of the book...phenomenal! Such a solid start! And when a book has this as a first-line: They've never found the body of the first and only boy who broke my heart. And they never will...Your expectations rise high. And this book did not let me down for half of it. And the suspense was gripping.The protagonist Alessandra was such a queen! That badass bitch, though most of the time she wanted to murder half of the people. She is a murderer, schemer, liar, and I really liked her.As for Kallias aka the shadow king, he was such a freaking sweetheart! A man full of secrets. His shadow powers are VERY fascinating! I honestly don't know why people think this is a love story between villains, because Kallias is like the sweetest person! I mean there is nothing villainous about murdering a few people or not caring about casualties in fights...rightttttt??????I absolutely loved them together, they are both messed up and they accept each other that way. I mean Kallias's reaction on finding out about Alessandra killing her first love...priceless (Dont even TRY and come after me because this isn't the spoiler goddamnit!)PLUS, this book had some amazing friendships too! “Waiting. Not waiting. One lover. A hundred lovers. There should be no judgment either way. A woman is not defined by what she does or doesn‘t do in the bedroom.”As for people saying it wasn't "Slytherin" enough...either you went in expecting bloodshed every other page or you don't know that Slytherin people don't go on murdering everyone or planning homicides all day. ♣Now coming to the real question as to why am I still disappointed...behold, here comes the ranting,EVERYONE talks about it but imma talk about it AGAIN, THE WORLDBUILDING! *dhun dhun dunnnnnn*This book has no freaking worldbuilding...like at all—and don't even come and convince me it does because it doesn't even have a speck of worldbuilding in it. We establish early on that that The shadow king is the ruler of the six kingdoms and blah blah blah. I expect them to at least brush on the point about how the 6 six kingdoms are different than each other or how they came to be—but nothing and this isn't even the main issue!!!!The MAIN issue is ELECTRICITY!!So, here is my mind imagining victorian style palaces and dresses and kings and queens and annual balls, then they tell the soldiers carry guns...but soldiers can have guns right? Maybe this kingdom is advance. So I move on, and people are wearing gowns and there are carriages and then we are informed there is electricity...wait what the fuck! Here I am imagining the victorian era, we are lead to believe this is old times and there are bulbs and lights here all of a sudden...what the heck. And so as an avid fantasy reader I expect them to explain this to me. Tell me how is everything working here, why is electricity invented but it is still old times but they do nothing about it and I am left standing at the alter! My next issue, the suspense I told you about led to nothing. ABSOLUTE BULLSHIT HERE and this annoyed the heck out of me people. The author had all those different storylines and mysteries going on in the background with the main plot in front. So, I am excited about these different mysteries, right? There is suspense and there is drama and then poof...NOTHING...again! We follow these issues and expect them to end at a note that solves things but instead what I got was a disappointment. It was like when someone tells me I will get some pizza after 7 days, and every day they tell me how much cheese is on the pizza, how big it is, and everything...and my innocent ass is waiting for 7 days to eat pizza. And on the last day, that motherfucker tells me it was all a joke! THAT IS WHAT I FELT WHILE READING THE BOOK...and thankyouverymuch I know I give good explanations XD“When a man sees something that several other men want, he can’t help but want it, too.”THE CLIMAX WAS SO ANTI CLIMACTIC! This is what happened, there is a BIG mystery throughout the book and now I am at the last two chapters and it still isn't solved. And I am like, well, I have no clue how they will end the mystery because only a few pages are left, the last two chapters are so short...I wonder how it will be executed. And the mystery was solved in like 2 pages in the least exciting way possible. The execution sucked so freaking bad!Here is what happened,  Leandros turns out to be Kallias's brother, and that was revealed in the dullest way possible but then I am processing that information, and boom he is already dead...just like that. No proper action, no proper nothing and he is already dead. And this mystery that was set up at the start of the book ended like it was nothing!.Here is another example, for all the people who have read the book:  Hektor's death investigation was an ongoing topic for so many chapters. Alessandra was worried and it was made into this whole BIG deal but then it leads to nothing. Kallias found out, he laughed and discarded it...he was like whatever, no big deal. I honestly loved his reaction but bitch if you wanted this whole investigation to be a no big deal then why the fuck was there so much suspense and build-up around it. I was falsely led to believe that something would happen here but it was like...kallias doesn't care and now that story arc is over. WHY THE FUCK WAS THIS STORY ARC EVEN STARTED IN THE FIRST PLACE WHEN THERE WERE NO INTENTIONS OF COMPLETING IT!.Everything was so freaking slow but rushed at the same time. The author started so many story arcs but never cared to finish them. The execution could have been much better if this was a duology and if the author actually tried to complete the story in a decent way. Disappointment is what I got here. Although I LOVED the starting 35% of the book...then it went downhill. ALSO now that I have had time to re-evaluate everything because I am writing the review days after reading the book...I find more flaws than I did while reading it apparently. It just wasn't enough, I feel like one of the main reasons I am still willing to give it a 2.25 is because I loved bits and pieces here and there and I thoroughly enjoyed the different mysteries, although I was infinitely disappointed at the end, I still enjoyed while the mystery was on-going. And at the end I still liked the characters, WITH THAT SAID I DONT THINK I MADE PROPER SENSE LOL XD Buddy read with Dulcie