💀 DNF at 31% 💀Warning: I pretty much have nothing to say about this book. Does it mean my review will be short? Now now, people, don't be so naïve. Okay, let's do some quick maths here. I read the first 31% of this book. This book is 752 pages long (it feels like it's 2,500 pages long, but don't tell anyone I said that). Which means I read about 230 pages of this Delightful Piece of Fast-Paced Awesomeness (DPFPA™). Which means I should have something to tell you about it. But I don't. Because nothing happened. Apart from a bunch of thieves planning some kind of con-type thing. Is that vague enough for you? Good. Now don't ask me what kind of con-type thing it was, because after 230 pages, I still freaking haven't a freaking clue. It's got to do something with some fascinating noble guy named Don Lorenzo Salvara. And that's pretty much all I know about it. Why? Because the author was so busy drowning his main plot in irrelevant crap that he forgot he had an actual story to tell. But I wouldn't want to be completely unfair here (and as you all know, I am fairness incarnate), so I will admit that yes, one thing did happen. I know you don't believe me, but I swear it's the truth. Want to know what happened? Lamora got on a boat. Yep, that's right. I know it's a lot to take, but please try and refrain from fainting. Have you recovered? I hope so, because I just remembered something else happened. No no no, don't pass out again! Stay with me! Just take a few deep breaths and it will be alright. Feel better? Phew, that was close. So, "what else happened," you ask? Some gladiator-type chick got eaten by some sharks. Yeah, that was pretty cool. I enjoyed every single second of that scene. That scene was amazing. Think of it as 5 glorious seconds of utter awesomeness. Scott Lynch, you overachiever. 5 whole seconds! This is just too much. You shouldn't overexert yourself like this, I'm pretty sure it's hazardous to your health. Come to think of it, I shouldn't worry about you. I mean, 98% of this book 31% of this book is filler BS, adorned with Agonizingly Interminable Descriptions from Inferno (AIDI™) and enhanced with Excruciatingly Detailed Prose from Hell (EDPH™). Yep, that's right, excitement is me ☢ sarcasm alert ☢ And that is all. I have nothing else to say about this book. BUT. I'd hate to see you go so soon, so I shall (very generously, I might add) share my Delightful Lamora Reading Experience (DLRE™) with you. I suffered through 31% of this, there's no reason why you shouldn't suffer through this review as well. Please don't thank me, I'm generous like that.» So. When I first read the blurb for this book, I was all: Which loosely translates to: OMG this sounds so cool, I should buddy read it with my Silly Friends of Despicable Book Taste I love you too!!!!» Then I very happily and very naively started reading. And this happened: blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim.Blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim. Blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim. » Oops, sorry, it looks like the Fairness Police just caught me in the act again (see how they stop me the slow-mo way? That just goes to show how faithful they are to the author's style). Okay, so I have to admit that in the middle of all this blah-blah-blah-ing and skim-skim-skimming, this sometimes happened: ha ha ha ha ha, great dialogue, ha ha ha ha ha, great dialogue, ha ha ha ha ha, great dialogue, ha ha ha ha ha, great dialogue, ha ha ha ha ha, great dialogue. But I'm afraid Lynch's 5-second rule applies here as well. So we were back in blah blah blah, skim skim skim land in less time than it takes to blink.Oh, no need to remind Mr Lynch about that. Believe me, HE KNOWS.Blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim, blah blah blah, skim skim skim. REPEAT. REPEAT. REPEAT. » And that, ladies and gentlemen, is how I ended up DNFing this thrilling piece of captivating literature. Oh believe me, I know I read it all wrong, blah blah blah, skim skim skim and all that crap. Well let me tell you something: if some of my dear friends hadn't waited for me to DNF this to tell me the first half of the book was boring as hell (you don't say?!) but that the second half was awesome, maybe I would have kept on reading. And maybe, just maybe, I would be ooh-ing and aah-ing about this right now ← you don't really believe any of this, do you? Oh good, you scared me there for a second. I mean boring crap is boring crap, no matter how you look at it.►► And the moral of this non-review is: hey, I think I've just achieved something here! I think I just wrote a blah blah blah, skim skim skim review! Damn, I can be so gifted sometimes. You better watch out, Mr Lynch, your glorious days as Ruthless Ruler of Blah Blah Blah Skim Skim Skim Land are over. I'm out to get you.