Some books evoke a distinctive feeling, or atmosphere, that can only be associated with that said book. This is no less true for The Lies of Lock Lamora by Scott Lynch. From the very early on I knew what kind of stuff this would be about, and how gritty it was going to become. Indeed, this book turns into a violent mess. That’s because the ancient city of Camorr is infested with thieves, pickpockets, schemers and violent gang leaders. But, the worse of the bunch is the priests. Father Chains is a priest and his money making scheme is as brilliant as it is conniving. He hides behind a false religion and has created a fake temple to its worship. He pretends to be a prophet; thus, he rakes in a considerable income in tithes. He keeps the money for himself, and lives in luxury. To add insult to injury he also pretends to be blind, which further increases sympathy for himself and weighs down his pockets more so. Chains becomes Locke’s mentor. Suffice to say, he has learnt from the best thief of the age.  He was raised to be a thiefLocke Lamora (sounds good to say doesn’t it) is a young prodigy out to steal the world; he is ambitious and clever, strong and resourceful, and he has set his mind to a heist that will topple all those that came before it. He is the leader of Chain’s Gentleman Bastards, which is a thief syndicate that uses every tool available. These include things from a simple cutpurse job to blending in with the nobility. They were all raised by Chains; they are all master thieves, and the heist they attempt is bigger than the dreams any common thief. Well, you know what they say about those that fly too high: they end up in a sticky mess. The Gentleman Bastards certainly achieved that. During their scheming they crossed paths with someone rather ominous, someone who wishes to use them in his revenge field mission against the entire city of Camoor. He has discovered the plans of Locke and friends and is using it to manipulate them to help in his blood soaked quest. Woe to Locke Lamora for this man has hired the help of someone rather dangerous: a feared bondsmage.  Some great action The result is one big bloody mess that the author has thoughtfully devised. He has written in very well too, for the most part, although there are a few moments when his prose goes overboard. Don’t get me wrong, he describes some things with real eloquent detail, but others are just in too much depth. I remember reading a paragraph long description of a barrel of ale at one point. This was completely unnecessary. However, when these in depth description are applied to a combat scene the result is fantastic. This is my only criticism for the novel, and if they were toned a little I would have enjoyed the book a little more. Overall, this is a great fantasy novel that is unlike any others I’ve read. This is always good because the genre can be littered with books that simply follow the standard fantasy archetype, which results in repetitive story telling. This isn’t necessarily bad, but can become boring after a while. Therefore, the plot of this is fresh, exciting and completely new. A good solid 3.5 stars.