2016: I was really looking forward to this one...But alas, it just didn't pan out. The author had a really interesting, whimsical concept: magicians are "bonded" to one particular "man-made" substance such as paper, plastic, metal (nevermind that metal is naturally occurring), rubber (also naturally occurring) etc. Our protagonist, Ceony, wanted to be bonded to metal, but was instead assigned to apprentice as a paper Folder (apparently for no reason other than there just weren't enough Folders, rather than her having an aptitude for paper). She goes to live with Magician Emery Thane so that he can teach her the art of magical paper folding. Ok, seems good enough. She gets a fun sidekick that's a dog made of folded paper, and starts to learn some basic folding magic while developing a crush on her teacher.....And then things went downhill. Out of the blue, Emery's jealous ex-wife Lira (who is apparently a dark magician who can manipulate blood) shows up, freaks out, and grabs Emery's still-beating heart right out of his chest, and then vanishes. Well then. Ceony does some quick thinking paper folding (despite having very little training yet) and shoves a paper heart into Emery's chest to tide him over while she goes after Lira to get Emery's heart back. Ceony sends some paper birds to find Lira, and then goes up into Emery's attic to find a paper glider, which she expertly uses (again, with very little training) to follow Lira. She finds Lira in an oceanside beach, there's a scuffle....and then Lira somehow traps Ceony INSIDE Emery's heart. Ceony experiences this as a red-walled room with blood on the floor, but soon learns that she can walk from one chamber of the heart to another, and when she does so she sees visions of memories that Emery keeps in his heart.Ehhh, ok, kind of cheesy in a great big obvious metaphor way. Even so, I waited for this heart-exploring scene to finish up to that Ceony could get back to doing paper magic....But, egads, it went on for NINETY PAGES! 90! In a book that's only 214 pages long, that's nearly half the book! Half the book is basically one big eavesdropping info dump as Ceony moves from heart cavity to heart cavity, watching Emery's life story play out. Scenes of him as a child, scenes of him meeting his wife, scenes of him finding out his wife was a blood magician, scenes of him divorcing his wife, and then scenes of his future "hopes" with a faceless yet-to-be-found woman to live happily ever after with (gosh, I wonder who could fill that role).Argh. It's basically like the author wanted to give us Emery's background, but has heard everyone always say "Show, don't tell" and took it overly literally to SHOW us Emery's background in excruciating detail, rather than just telling us key details. And probably the most irritating thing is that in these 90 pages, there's basically no paper magic whatsoever. There's a small moment where Lira shows up to pester Ceony, who blasts her away with a paper fan, but then nothing for the rest of those 90 pages. Since paper magic was the one intriguing part of this story, omitting it for nearly 50% of the book is definitely a letdown. During this 90 page drag, Ceony literally has no purpose except to express emotions toward all of the Emery story that she sees. She's merely there as a cardboard cut out so that the author can guide us through Emery's entire life. Not good. Especially not good that we know almost nothing at all about Ceony's past, so she seems even more like a two dimensional device merely used to channel info to the reader.Finally, around page 180, Ceony escapes Emery's heart to do battle with Lira, and we see that pretty much nothing was gained by the last 90 pages. It's not like she learned a valuable clue to help her defeat Lira.....If anything, it just made her fall in love with Emery more. But, since she was already determined to save Emery's heart no matter what, even this seems a bit redundant. When I was initially reading this book, I felt like my review was going to say that this book should be longer. The beginning felt rushed (again, we never get background on Ceony's life), and it seemed like more time should have been spent on her learning magic......but looking back, the book really could have stayed this length and still be good if the author hadn't devoted half the book that that running trapped-in-a-heart info dump. Whittle that down by 75%, and use those pages to instead develop Ceony's character, or go into more paper folding detail.......Unfortunately, time management skills don't seem to be this author's strength. The book ended painfully wide open for a sequel, so I suspect this is another one of those deals where a stand-alone book got stretched in order to create a weak trilogy.I also found that the word building in this book was severely lacking. I got the vague impression that this was supposed to be maybe Victorian or Edwardian times (?) but they have linoleum and plastic, so I don't know. Since half of the book was spent inside a human organ, naturally the setting of the overall story was a bit muddled.Ceony was also obviously supposed to come across as a smart, independent woman....but that was a bit ruined by the fact that she automatically cooks and does laundry for her employer, and then falls in love with him in only a few days despite the fact that this is probably the first man she's ever spent time with, AND he is much older than her AND her boss. Typical.I shan't be continuing with this series. I nearly quit this book several times, but it was short and I was hoping that there might be some kind of redeeming revelation at the end. Nope.Skip this one.