A note before I start the review. If the author ever happens to read this, or anyone considering writing a book based in a different time or place--just saying it is set in England at the turn of the 20th Century doesn't make it so. It is very hard to get into it when everything sounds like modern day language and dialogue. It sounds exactly how people speak today. Even when the story told me the year and the place, I had a hard time feeling it. Read D. H. Lawrence's Sons and Lovers. That's how this book needs to feel. That's how the dialogue needs to sound. If not, your book will never be believable. Honestly, if this book had been set in present day America, and had a lot of the unneeded details and adjectives cut out, it would have been better. Would have definitely garnered more stars than me. But as it is, well, you'll see my opinion in my review. My apologies up front, because I'm going to be a bit of a jerk. Now, on to the review:Boooooooo! Booooooooooo! I don't think I have ever booed a book in a review before, but this one was more than deserving. I've had Amazon Prime for a while, but August was the first month I remembered to get one of the free ebooks, and boy, I can tell ya, what a let down. I mean, wow, the author sure can put a lot of words on paper without saying anything. And some of her similes and metaphors are just laughable--unnecessary and distracting. And I guess this book is set in England...because everyone once in a while it has some attempt at using an English term, word or colloquialism, but since it is not constant, it just makes it awkward. So, prediction 1-this author is American, and probably had never visited the UK. Prediction 2-she was homeschooled as a child, or grew up Mormon, or something else that keeps you out of the real world, shelters you...something. I mean, is undergarments too big of a swear word to say that we have to call them underthings...And the book is about magicians, and she makes note of one of them noticing the other didn't pray before a meal...well, pretty sure in any realm practicing sorcerers aren't Christians (or followers any other Abrahamic religion)...so they wouldn't pray before a meal, right? And, I mean who else besides a right-winged American would describe an English girl right out of school traveling with a gun in her suitcase? (When I wrote this I hadn't figure out it was set around 1900 yet. Now it makes more sense, but come on! A reader shouldn't be surprised by the year come page 60 or so!) But she describes currency as pounds, so it has to be the UK, right? But the whole ambiance of the book is American. You can't just say a few British words and phrases and call it good. Just like how saying you saw a yearbook from 1888 doesn't all of a sudden make the book feel like it's taking place 100 years ago. That's not how setting works. And I get it, I know, I know, I am not the target demographic for this book. But having been a language arts and reading teacher the past five years, I know there is good stuff out for preteens/young adults. There is quality work. To put this book out and give it to them because they might enjoy it because they don't know any better is insulting. I have read books that were boring, but I could appreciate and give a good review because of the mastery of the word play. And then there are books that I absolutely love with zero literary value, but they are just so darn entertaining. But this book had no redeeming qualities. I hate this book more than Roger Ebert hated any of Rob Schneider's movies. Even with the review as it is so far, I think I am painting it in more of a positive light than I really feel it deserves. I would rather hold in a really uncomfortable fart for 3 hours in a room full of people I look up to and respect and would be humiliated if I embarrassed myself in front of them than have to spend 3 hours reading this steaming pile again. I mean, I have read owners' manuals for lawn mowers that were more entertaining than this. I have read a lot of self published books, and of course they are amateurish; they are amateur books! But this one looks like it is coming from a real publisher, and it is more amateur and poorly written than anything self published, barring the worst of the worst. The only thing this book has going for it over self published stuff is it seems to be free of typos. So yay for the proof reading! BUT! When you were proof reading, for the love of Vishnu why didn't you revise it!?! It's like my 4th graders in class. When I tell them it's time to edit and revise, oh they do the editing well, putting in periods and commas and making sure everything that needs to be capitalized is, but the revising is where they get messed up. They are married to their work and don't want to erase anything. So when there is crap, instead of taking it out, they pile more crap on top of if. And then they get a steaming pile of crap. Like The Paper Magician. The more I read the worse it got. She went up stairs and smelled mildew and it was cooler than down stairs. Before there was air conditioning? That's not how attics work. That's how basements work! This is why you need to proofread for more than just punctuation and grammar mistakes! Oh. To any future readers of this book-- once you get to the "exciting" part where she is in that thing (don't want to say what for spoilers sake, but it's the main thing you aren't going to miss it) skip to the last chapter. Yep. It's horribly boring and takes way too long to say what is happening, but in the last chapter she gives an abridged version of what happened in a conversation. So yeah. Those tedious chapters were all a waste because you find out what happened without them. In other words, don't buy this book. Don't read it. The only reason I read it all is because after the first few pages I knew I had to write this review, and I wanted it to be as honest as possible. If the book had just one redeeming quality, I would have told you. But it didn't. I have never hated a book as much as this one. Booooooooo! Booooooooooooo!