Spoiler Alert!!! Spoiler Alert!!!This book contains content that can cause a reader to inflict bodily harm to oneself. Proceed with caution! Oh and my review might contain a spoiler or two… you've been warned."Don't worry. I'll keep my distance from your blossom. I know whose petals I'm allowed to get into and whose I'm not. *he inhaled deeply* Mmmmm. As fabulous as you smell, your petals are off limits to me."Whoaaaaaaaaa!! Get your mind out of the gutter! This is a YA book about fairie flowers for crying out loud. Yes, you heard me right... fairies that are PLANTS. Yes PLANTS! Oh fine, I'll admit, I had trouble grasping the concept as well. It was all really face palm worthy, and I was actually perplexed to find Stephenie Meyer endorsed this book until I found out that the author Aprilynne Pike is a friend of hers, so that answers that. ^^I really struggled with this book if you couldn't tell by now, and there are so many head desk issues with the writing and concept that I actually called it quits and couldn't finish it. This book reeks of Mary-Sues and Gary-Stus. You have the main character Laurel that's ohhh soooo beautiful, with amazing eyes, luminous blond hair, a thin, willowy body, with translucent white skin. Oh! And she's vegan and smells good and she's got this great guy that's too good to be true tripping over her and falling in lurves with her despite the fact that she blossoms a flower on her back and he doesn't find that the least bit weird. David, she's a PLANT!! Yes! A PLANT!! *shakes head*Putting the Mary-Sue and PLANT issue aside, the writing is extremely simplistic and the storyline is developed in a way that makes it hard to suspend one's reality and appreciate the story for what it's worth. There were so many insignificant incidences and events that I kept losing interest and I never really came to care for Laurel or David. Oh and did I mention she's a PLANT? Overall, I'd say that the concept had potential but noooo… she's a PLANT! It takes a talented author to create a fantastical realm and launch an idea that requires imaginary suspension, and unfortunately IMHO Aprilynne Pike didn't deliver, so lucky for Pike that she has friends in high places to get her book off the ground.Final point… err question rather: Why is this book called Wings if it's really a PLANT and Laurel can't fly with the flower that blossoms on her back? Didn't quite get that, but I am not going to continue to read this series to find out. No thanks.*walks away mumbling 'she's a PLANT??? WT?!?!'* ^^