Alright bow down bitches.“She knew her own worth. She would seize her destiny with all the strength and spirit within her, and bend them all to her will: every man kneeling and every woman overshadowed.”This book was powerful, intense, dark and amazing. I am obsessed with fairytale retellings and Asian-inspired fantasy and this book fucking delivered. I knew what I was coming for and I got it. This is the epitome of dark fantasy retellings.The plot. This was an Eastern-Asian retelling of the Evil Queen from Snow White. And I loved it. It was so dark and enchanting – much like our protagonist herself.Xifeng, the main character, was always told by her aunt Guma that it was her destiny to become the Empress. But aside from her beautiful face and foretold fate, it seems like nothing is going to get her out of the destitute village and abusive household she’s been raised in.So, with her forbidden lover Wei, Xifeng decides to leave Guma and the village, and seek out her destiny on her own.“For that is the way of the world…Some are given a rope to the moon, and others claw up the sky.”The world-building was very easy to grasp, but it was still gorgeous and detailed. The kingdom of Feng Lu was based on dynasty-era China and everything else about the system followed that.The geography, history, class system and everything about the palace - the concubines, eunuchs and army - were explained simply but in detail, and it lent such a rich setting and a beautiful atmosphere to the world.The writing was gorgeous. It added this perfect, rich quality to everything about the book. Julie C. Dao’s prose was so beautiful and lush and I loved how the descriptions flowed. Reading this book just became such an aesthetic experience.“Xifeng tilted her face, a pale moon in the evening of the water. She felt like a goddess in the shimmering light. She was a poem come to life; each vein was a lyric.”The characters. I loved our antiheroine, Xifeng. This queen was ruthless and beautiful and I was here for it.Her personality was so complex and beautifully written. I loved that she was so determined and so relatable - she was the protagonist, but as we all know, the Evil Queen was also the villain. But the way she was told through the story meant I couldn’t NOT root for her. That magnetism and charisma was insane.“She would bloom where she was planted and let her roots close around the throats of her enemies.”Guma – Guma was Xifeng’s abusive aunt, who raised her in absence of her parents. Guma was the one who told Xifeng repeatedly that she was meant to be the Empress. She was toxic and manipulative, but she played an incredibly important part in the book for her own reasons. She was horrible to read at first, but I couldn’t help wanting to know more about her and why she did what she did.Wei – Xifeng’s secret lover who was her only respite from Guma’s treatment. He was kind and loving, but had a ferocious temper and never really listened to Xifeng. He was possessive and stubborn and didn’t even try to understand Xifeng’s perspective. I didn’t like him much, to be honest. Their romance didn’t feel authentic and I didn’t like them together.[Wei] “I saved you from that evil woman!"[Xifeng] “Only to trap me yourself. I was Guma's, and now you want me to be yours. I have my own soul and my own destiny, and I'm tired of belonging to someone else."Empress Lihua – the reigning Empress of Feng Lu. She was an amazing character with such inner strength and I loved the role she played as a mother/mentor figure to Xifeng. I loved reading about her.“But in weakness, you find your strength. It takes no small amount of courage to open yourself up,” the Empress said gently. “You leave pieces of yourself in the ones you love. Is that not the greatest power, to endure in that way?”Lady Sun – the Emperor’s favorite concubine, and a conniving bitch. She was cruel, cunning and remorseless, and would do anything she could to anyone she thought was in her way. She was power-hungry and vicious and probably Xifeng’s main opposition after she came to the palace.“I was born a woman into this world," she said, echoing the concubine's words. "And I will play the game, but I won't lose.”Something I loved was how the magic played into the characters. The fantasy setting was present in almost everything, and the way it impacted Xifeng and Guma and all of Feng Lu was so interesting.The mythology was prevalent to the geography and the wars that were fought. The magic that Guma owned and the gods she worshipped played into Xifeng’s strength. It was beautiful and lush and it just added so much to the entire book.“I want to mean something to a great deal of people. I am tired of being no one. As Empress, I would have the right to choose for myself. Guma could not command me, and Wei would not own me.”Another thing I loved about this book was how self-worth played into things. Xifeng was beautiful and powerful and she knew it. But she derived her strength and her confidence from that beauty.I loved the way her sense of self-esteem and her freedom from a toxic relationship changed her personality. How she felt about herself changed the plot of the story, and I loved that effect.“Sometimes it is necessary to do questionable deeds to achieve what the heavens ordain,” Xifeng said, thinking of all she herself had done. “But in our losses, we may gain ourselves. We take what is ours and find solace in the quiet places between death and destruction.”The character development was stunning and twisted. We saw Xifeng go from an unsure girl with a destiny too big for her, to a stone-cold queen bitch of an Empress with the world at her feet. She traded one toxic relationship for another, not realizing how much of a victim she was until she recognized her own strength.At the beginning of the book, she was determined and scrappy. She had to be resourceful and cautious to survive. Over the book, she grew in stubbornness and self-worth. She became stronger, fiercer and cleverer.Xifeng’s evolution was intense and twisted and I loved every bit of her rise to power.“Being underestimated can be a blessing in disguise,” Xifeng said. “That is to say, it gives us a chance to astonish those who doubt our true worth.”Overall, this book is the perfect balance between dark fairy tale, Asian mythology and dynastic China, and wicked protagonist. I am obsessed with villain main characters AND gorgeous settings AND pretty writing and this book gave me all of it.I’ve already read this book once before, and I was kind of worried that my tastes would have developed past it by the time I got around to rereading it. But it was still just as epic and intense as I remembered it being.“She was a monster, a bride of the darkness, and she rose to face her destiny as though it were the blood-red sunrise of a new day.”