She was special, with every bite, every stream of blood spurting from her ravenous mouth. She was a monster, a bride of the darkness, and she rose to face her destiny as though it were the blood-red sunrise of a new day.This book is so gloriously BRUTAL. One word of warning, this book is certainly not for faint hearted, if you want a glint of hopefullness and happiness then go away because this book is certainly not for you. Forest of thousand lanterns follow the story of 18 year old's Xifeng's rise as an empress, as she embraces her own dark destiny.Xifeng's abusive aunt/Guma had filled her head with promise of great destiny as an Empress of whole Feng lu. The cards shows a powerful future beholds Xifeng but with great powers come great sacrifices, so throughout the book we saw as Xifeng abandon every kind of love to achive her destiny. She left her aunt, who she thought as her mother and abandoned Wei, her childhood sweetheart, to go into the Castle of Emperor Jun and grab her future.The world building was so beautiful and intricate. The blend of various elements of Chinese culture was done really well. I love court settings and court manoeuvrings so much and the author did splendid job building a court and consperacies within it.Xifeng's journey to darkness was done so well!!! Xifeng is gorgeous and knows how to use her beauty to survive in this cruel and dark world run by men. Throughout the book, we saw her inner conflicts. She try hard not to let her selfishness and darkness within her take over her but as story progressed she realize that only way to achieve greatness is through embracing her darkness.Just as it had the first time Guma had made her kill, Xifeng could hear a piece of her old self pleading: Let me go. Don’t make me do this. Her limbs shuddered with her silent prayer for mercy, for her own salvation, but she heard nothing in return except the thundering of her own heart.“Save me,” Xifeng uttered aloud, one last time, before she let the darkness take her. She knew nothing now but her uncontrollable hungerXifeng is not the character to love or root for. She is extremely hateful toward every girl at court but her hatred for other and desire to be greater then everyone is the whole point of story. The court life is cruel, and if Xifeng did not become cruel like others, she would have eventually failed. I know everybody cared more for Xifeng and her conflicts but to be honest, the character I loved most was Empress Lihua. Lihua was the most miserable character in this book despise being Empress and direct descendants of Dragon Lords. Her parents did not deem her fit to rule, her first husband married her to another person before his death, his second husband, Emperor Jun did not gave a shit about her once Xifeng came into view and then in the end everyone forget her. She was not ruthless like Xifeng was, and in the end nobody cared for her. But despuse everything, she was still strong. She was clever and saw everything thay was happening around her. She loved her daughter dearly. She didn't have physical strength but her love for her child made up for it.Everytime I think if Lihua, my heart break even more. She did not do anything wrong. She deserved love and in the end she did got love in the form of her daughter, but almost everyone, even the readers too, forget her. I think this was the whole point of this book; be cruel or be forgotten. I just hope there is loads of Princess Jade in the next book. Pleasee!!!It's twisted, it's cruel and full of blood. I felt anger and love for Xifeng, I sympathized with Lihua, I am feeling so protective of baby Jade and I really want fo kill Emperor Jun. There were tons of twists and turns that I did not see coming and Xifeng's conflicts would not bore you. So many emotions, so many action, so many interesting characters, all in all, it's perfection.