Last one! It's a toss up whether this one or the first is my favorite, it's so hard to pick. Anyway, here we go:Price is set about eight years after the end of Promise. Vanyel is no longer on the front lines of the war; he's been put in a more or less administrative position in Haven. That doesn't necessarily mean he's not working as hard. The king, Randale, who has been suffering from a chronic illness for years, suddenly becomes fatally ill, and the Healers don't even know what is causing his illness, much less how to cure it. Because Randale is either in too much pain to function, or is too doped up to function, a lot of his duties have fallen on Vanyel's shoulders. In addition, Vanyel is also the head of the Council, the head of the Heralds, and is helping train the Heir as well. Now, one of Vanyel's nephews, Medren, has come to Haven to study music. They're pretty close; Vanyel feels protective of Medren because Medren was in a similar situation as Vanyel when he was young. Medren has a room mate, Stefen, who has a Wild Talent; when Stefen sings or plays music, he can make people who are in pain totally forget about it. Medren and one of his instructors have tested Stefen's ability, and believe he can do this constistently, so they bring him to Vanyel's attention, figuring that Stefen can help Randale. What Vanyel doesn't know is that Medren has an ulterior motive.In the years since Vanyel's promotion, he's made some enemies, and a few attempts have been made on his life. Vanyel realizes that one of his enemies could easily decide to target someone he was close to if they weren't able to get him directly, so he's made an effort to isolate himself, in order to present as few targets as possible. Medren thinks his uncle is overreacting, and knows that Vanyel is very lonely. So, he's decided to try and hook Vanyel up with Stefen, who is also openly gay. Stefen has had a crush on Vanyel for years, but never had the nerve to approach him, even though Medren offered to introduce them. He's unaware that Vanyel is the one who is supposed to present him to the king, and when he realizes who's coming to meet him, he's floored.So goes the rest of the book, Stefen trying to get close to Vanyel, Vanyel discovering he has feelings for Stefen, but not wanting to put him at risk. It's a little more complicated than that, but again, spoilers, so that's all I'll say. Again, Misty's focus on this was to write a love story, and again, something has to happen besides the developement of the character's relationships. This time, one of Vanyel's nebulous enemies shows his hand, and Vanyel, sick of people he loves being targetted, decides to take the fight to him.The Review: Okay my beef with this one is that it was just too damn short. I wish it had been stretched out into a pentolgy! Seriously, I don't think that Vanyel and Stefen's relationship is as well developed as it could have been. Like before, some action had to happen, and that cut in on the relationship part. Of course, the action part really had to happen, and at least this time it didn't have that last-minute, tacked on feel, but still.That's the only negative thing I can think off with this one. Wow, maybe I'm still blind to it's other faults. Who knows?