Ugh. So many things wrong with this book, where to begin…Magic’s Price, the third and final novel in Lackey’s Last Herald-uMage series, takes place nine years after the events of the series’ second novel, Magic’s Promise – which, when added to the 11-year gap between the events of books 1 and 2, puts us at a convenient 20 years after the events of Magic’s Pawn. “Price” centers on the political and personal upheavals threatening or taking place in (respectively) Valdemar: religious war may break out with another kingdom, while the king of Valdemar himself is literally wasting away. The Heralds are stretched thinner than ever, and even fewer Herald-mages remain.Our hero, Vanyel, has traded the military battlefield for a political one, being apparently the only person who can handle the dying king’s responsibilities of negotiating peace treaties, unifying and overseeing the Heralds, etc. Vanyel also – finally – has a lover. Meanwhile, a dark mage has begun a personal vendetta against Vanyel, attempting to kill or killing those closest to him. Finally the Herald-mage is able to track this “Master Dark” to his hiding place in a land far north of Valdemar – and there he and the mage have a deadly showdown.I had high hopes for “Price” when I began it. There was much more character expansion for Vanyel in the first hundred-odd pages, what with him finally deciding that yes, he is human, and yes, he does need and want a companion other than his Companion. Mystery also took to the stage in the book – who is this dark mage? Why has he chosen to target Vanyel? Is he the one responsible for the king’s disease? And what about Vanyel’s lover – why does he know or remember things only Tylendel (Vanyel’s first love and lifebond) would have known? But all these questions are maddeningly left hanging, while others are only partially fleshed out. It is hinted at, for example, that the dark mage might have been Tayledras. Nothing comes of this suspicion. The reader is told flat-out that Vanyel’s new lover is his old one reincarnate; Stefen never has an epiphany of this, while Vanyel himself doesn’t put two and two together until moments before his death. And don’t even get me started on Vanyel’s “dramatic end.” All we are told of his Final Strike – the thing that the entire series has been leading up to since halfway through book 1 – is a yell and flash of pain from Stefen. We are never even told exactly what the Final Strike IS. The moments leading up to his death that ARE from Vanyel’s POV are frustratingly lacking in emotion – there is no serene calm, relaxed resignation, regret, or even thoughts of Stefen. Just… nothing. The book’s pacing is odd as well, dwelling at certain points for several pages then suddenly skipping ahead months at a time. The POV also switches around quite a bit more than in books 1 and 2, often resting with minor or unknown characters for lengthy periods before finally settling back with – wait for it – Stefen again. This happens even more frequently in the last 50 or so pages, at the height of VANYEL’S inner turmoil. I don’t want to hear a disposable character’s thoughts on an important scene, nor do I want Stefen’s view; this is VANYEL’S story. I want HIS POV. The book could have been much more engaging if certain scenes had instead been told through Vanyel’s eyes, like his torture and rape or final battle. Then there’s the ending. Vanyel dies, and is given 3 choices (apparently, as we are cheated of this possibly fascinating scene as well, being told only of it later when Stefen encounters Vanyel’s spirit/ghost): he can go on to the Havens, be “reborn,” or stay behind to guard Valdemar in an up-til-now-completely-insignificant forest – which doesn’t even need guarding as Master Dark and his army have been decimated. Oh, and wait – Stefen can come too, but only after he spends 70 YEARS convincing everyone in Valdemar that yes, the Heralds can be just as good as the mages at defending the kingdom. (Why a Bard is going to be able to convince the Heralds and the rest of the kingdom of this is left unexplained. He just “can.” ) Stefen does so, returns to the forest, and is quite literally spirited away.I wanted to like this book very badly. I’d enjoyed Pawn and liked Promise even more, hoping Price would clear up some mysteries and (finally!) give Vanyel a lover-boy. Instead, I was left with more questions than answers, as well as “fade outs” – is Lackey generally a prude when it comes to love scenes, or just a prude when it comes to gay ones? The book is worth reading to get closure on Vanyel's story, but it ultimately leaves the reader very frustrated - this end could have been so much better. Magic's Price is a very unsatisfying end to what could have been a great series, had it not been rushed in its final and most important book.