I'm shaking my head and locking the gates. THIS IS WHY WE CAN'T HAVE NICE THINGS.Here I was thinking this book was just a wholesome story about kindness and acceptance. 🙂but🙂no🙂TW for this review: rape, residential schools, ethnic cleansing, traumaEdit: Apparently people are misunderstanding my review. The problem with this book isn't that it's based on historical events. Pretty much every fantasy book is. The problem is that it romanticizes and glorifies residential schools. If some author took a horrific event from the past of my culture, like the Nanjing Massacre, and made it into a love story where everything is solved by the power of love, I would be furious. I don't mean to take away OwnVoices, I'm just spreading awareness about something that feels intensely problematic to me. Anyway, back to the review.This book is actually inspired by Canadian residential schools, where indigenous children were separated from their families and forced to abandon their culture and learn the "proper" way to live. The children were mistreated terribly. They were raped and beaten. Yes, this "wholesome" book is actually based off residential schools. Written by an author who thinks he can take away OwnVoices and use this horrible historical event as a romantic book he knows people will call precious and kind and important. He glorifies these schools, and despite his insistence that kindness is the answer, at the end of the book, the system is still in place. The message is that kindness solves everything. Which is honestly ridiculous. He took the trauma of so many children and romanticized it, turning it into a cute fantasy where everything is solved at the end because people are kind to each other. He said: “I didn’t want to co-opt, you know, a history that wasn’t mine. I’m a cis white dude, so I can’t ever really go through something like what those children had to go through.So I sat down and I was like, I’m just going to write this as a fantasy.” I'm so done. I don't think I need to clarify why this is so problematic. Linus comes in and once the children are LoVeD, all their problems are solved. Done. Gone. Nonexistent. Never mind that the children are still separated from their parents. Never mind that they are still being forced to blend in with a culture that isn't their own. Never mind that they're still being raped and tortured and beaten and mistreated. The problem isn't that he based his book off real events. That can be done in a way that doesn't romanticize trauma and doesn't act like everything can be solved because one person LoVeS the children. This book waters everything down and adds a healthy dose of sugar, covering all the suffering of these poor children with his own voice, rather than, you know, actually sticking to something he won't glorify, water down, or romanticize. He took something tragic and tried to make it cutesy. Please read this review and this review to educate yourself further.I will continue to read his books because I think he has the potential to be better than this.I would give the actual book 3 stars. It was pretty cheesy and lukewarm, and the messages felt forced.