Hands down. This is one of the best things I’ve read this year! I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH! I fell for the world building, creative-crazy-unique ideas, character development! This is not only a regular YA fantasy novel. This book is about acceptance, caring, opening your heart and soul! As a summary: this book is about unconditional love and respecting differences of others. It’s a sweet, smart, entertaining and also heartwarming story hooks you from the first chapter, makes you giggle, smile, sigh.  Let’s take a quick look of the storyline and the characters:  Our narrator Linus Baker is, 40 years old,a quiet, simple, lonely man works as a caseworker at Department in Charge of Magical Youth, living a simple, quiet, lonely life, always following rules, doing what the government orders. He always stays objective when he examines the orphanages filled with the kids who have supernatural abilities. He knows they’re different and he respects that. He never treats unfair and makes those children feel inferior. He treats them as equal as the normal kids but he never gets close or connects with them either.  He only does his job at the end of the day, going back his lonely house for arguing his noisy neighbor who tries to matchmake him with his accountant relative, playing music and talking with his grumpy cat which is his only real friend in this world.  But when he is summoned by Extremely Upper Management for an urgent meeting, he realizes his simple life will change forever.  Management hires him for a top secret mission: they want him to investigate Marysas Island Orphanage where six extremely dangerous kids reside: a gnome, a wyvern, an unidentifiable green blob, a were-Pomeranian, a sprite and an baby Lucy Morningstar! Thankfully he doesn’t learn the identities of the kids because he may have passed out during the meeting with his superiors!  And another fact kept secret from him: one of the children may have enough power to bring the “End of the Days”! ( You don’t have to guess which one is! Yes, the one with red eyes whose future self open a night club in LA!!)  He can’t reject the offer for the future of his job. He will spend one month in the island and he will not examine the well beings of the children but he will also investigate the master Arthur Parnassus and the way of doing his job.   He packs his bag and rides on his scheduled train accompanied by his cat. As soon as he reaches to the island, he realizes those kids are powerful, peculiar, different but they’re still kids. They are still looking for love, compassion. They are still needed to be taken care, educated, nurtured, healed. And their master enigmatic and also charming Arthur can connect with them. He’s doing an amazing job and kids love him, too. For the first time, Linus breaks his all rules, empathizing with these kids, opening his heart to them. And for the first time he’s not alone or he doesn’t have to live quite, simple, lonely life when he opens his heart and soul to unconditional love!  But of course his decision will bring out different consequences and risks into his life.  Overall: I loved everything about this beautiful, remarkable, extraordinary story. No more words. Borrowing the entire galaxy stars and giving to this book!