***and the award for the most disappointing read of 2021 goes to....Okay, time to go and break something because this one is bringing out the monster in me as I so wanted to destroy this one and wanted another version of this book 🤦 Sorry, dear pillows, bear my silent mind screaming 😌And after all that drama and bloodshed, this entire series ends as a quest to answer who's Lovey. (We will all know who Lovey is ultimately but it seems so disconnected!)I don't know if I should cry or laugh. As much as too many emotions are being tried to force feed while narrating the story, the more shallow the reading became. The writing tried too hard I guess. And the characters were too desperate to become into ones who tried to feel emotions. Like just too damn obvious. I wish the impression of all these characters remained the same as in the first two books.Sadly, this one is disappointing as hell! All that momentum that was built up in the first three books disappeared and never revived again. I feel the writing got too lost in nothing and the story lost direction. Whatever the heck happened to the characters?! Whatever the bleeding skies happened to the plot intensity in the first 3 books?My heart and soul. They are bleeding. For real. I cannot believe the last book became this average compared to the first 3 books. I want to cry so bad!It was like reading an endless commentary on mind blabbering without nothing much happening. I wanted more of the main characters. I wanted more of the Nightbringer. More of Helene and Harper. More of the jinns. More of the Commandent. More of everything. Things were happening but nothing happened much if you know what I mean. I feel betrayed.(My entire life seems bleak now... The disappointment hurts.)***I need to sleep on it. The anticipation of something better happening 'maybe in the next chapter/page' until the last few chapters is now hurting my head. And, to be honest, everything was quite boring compared to the first two books (which made my whole being enlightened with the fierce love of the books!).I like the lead female characters but I do not appreciate the tone they were using describing men. If it happened with the guys talking about women the same way (talk stereotypes!), there would have been more problems I guess. I find the characters pathetic at times in this book. Not at all expected. Laia is as impulsive as ever. The Soul Catcher seems more weaker. The Blood Shrike became more plain. And all kinds of chemistry weakened. Even the feeling of dread for the unstable moments and evil characters were totally missing. Whatever character development needed for the story to end well is missing.Whatever the subtle romance or spark that was there before, it all turned into something cheesy so much so that I just couldn't bear it. God, why?!The 'loss' in the end didn't make me feel anything. That's how disinterested I became. Seriously. So damn disappointing.Keris Veturia. Why the hell is her story not given to me properly? The most intimidating character in the entire plot yet so conveniently forgotten, eh? Those rare few lines in between the chapters and a chapter didn't do much I repeat 😭 Are you bleeding kidding me????!!!!Almost non-existent for the entire first 90 percent of the book, you can imagine how frustrated I would have been the entire first 500 pages!