SKIES,THIS WAS A BLEEDING ROLLERCOASTER RIDE !!! “Would that we all knew the cracked terrain of each other’s broken hearts. Perhaps then, we would not be so cruel to those who walk this lonely world with us.” Sabaa Tahir indeed 'worked her tail off' on this book .Was I heartbroken again? Sadly yes. But did this book disappoint me? No. Is this my new favourite? Hell yeah.The tale,my friends, was finally told.This book is everything I have been looking for in the first three books of this series(my most favourite book from this series is the first one. No competition). Some stuffs, however, the author used was not my favourite. I did not like the way, the 'main plot' of this book appeared (Waiting place and all that). I loved the characters more the plot. Hell, I do not remember a time when I wasn't in love with Elias-laia or was not fascinated by Nightbringer.Yeah,Nightbringer has my heart.I loved Elias in this book more than the previous ones. Laia was her amazing self.I disliked Helene less.The ending was perfection. Also, this author can break hearts. “I wish I could live a thousand lives so I could fall in love with you a thousand times”Oh. Emotions .And before I get more emotional, I want to say,Sabaa Tahir is one of my favourite authors. An ember in the ashes is my favourite series. Laia and Elias are my favourite fictional characters. In spite of all the chaos, the world Sabaa built is somewhere I would love to live.This series has been such a huge part of my bookish adventures. I've learnt so many things from Laia, Elias, Darin, Musa And Helene that at this point i'm not sure what to say now that this series has finally came to an end. But 'nothing ever ends' Elias and Laia will always be loved. I will keep rereading the series. I'm grateful to have met all those amazing characters. You, Sabaa Tahir, shattered my heart into pieces. And, I love you for that (with my broken heart)Don't judge. I'm an emotional mess right now. I'm still confused about so many stuffs. I can't wait to see what sabaa Tahir creates next.PRE-REVIEW: Elias might be a Soul-Catcher but Sabaa Tahir is a Heart-Breaker.FINAL REACTION! Not sure if I'll take that(what I said in my pre-review) back.