5 “I wish I could live a thousand lives so I could fall in love with you a thousand times” Stars!Thoughts:My statement: *picks up wireless mic that no one understands how I got* I will never be able to write this review the way I would like to because I am still reeling. I apologize and hope to write something better during a future reread because you bet your ass I will have to reread this spectacular series. Thank you for your time and thanks for proceeding to read this verbal vomit of emotions. *sets mic down politely for this was not a mic drop moment*I am devastated. I am devastated because Sabaa Tahir really just put me through that. I am devastated because this is the last I will have of these characters. I am devastated because this is over. I am at a loss for words. I say as I proceed to type many words. This picks up immediately from book three, and just when you think ‘haven’t they gone through enough?’, they proceed to go through so much more. It is action-packed. It is tear-jerking. It is my thirteenth reason and my everything all at once!You could compare this book to so many, but none will do it justice because the world created by ST is so refreshing, new yet familiar, dark, and terrifyingly enchanting!Helene: Loyal to the end! The world literally stopped around me every time it was your pov! The character development from book one to book four is incredible. You broke my heart a million times, and I love you forever for it. If you leave this book with another favorite other than Helene, you are lying! When someone asks me what book character I would like to meet in person, if I answer with anything other than Helene, I am lying! *Forever chanting* Blood-shrike! My bias! My book girlfriend! The love of my life! My Empress! Elias/Soul Catcher/Banu al-Mauth (it changes day to day so who knows): Always victorious!! Half of me wanted to fight you and the other half wanted to hold you! I love his stubborn ass with all of me.Laia: The darkness never could find a way to stick to your heart! Determined with a love for your people and to those around you. Good thing you are just as stubborn as Elias though! He needed it!The Nightbringer: I'm sorry who is this? Oh. No comment.Harper: It will always be too soon to talk about you. I will miss you forever. I will never be over it. I am tearing up just thinking about you. Sabaa Tahir I can’t forgive you for this one.Send a medic because my fear of a book slump after such an amazing series is so real! The hype around this series is not strong enough for me. Everyone needs a copy to cry with me! I don’t know if I can afford the group therapy though, so I may rethink that! However, go read it!*Me currently: Surfing through HeleneXHarper An Ember in the Ashes fics to console my shattered heart!Would I recommend this and to who: YES! What are you waiting for! It’s all released! (Come find me when you finish so we can scream about it together!)Paperback/Hardcover/Audiobook/E-book: Audiobook - I was impatiently waiting until I got it from Libby! (It took weeks!) Highly recommend it to anyone who is not against listening to books. The narrators on this should win an award because it is exquisite!How did I discover this:  My sister recommended this series to me, and I’m going to fight her for the pain she put me through. BRB!Pace:  MediumCover thoughts:  A fan of all varieties of this cover.POV: Multi - Elias, Laia, The Nightbringer and HeleneQuotes: *No names in the quotes, but possible semi-spoilers*”I'd tear apart the world if anything happened to you.”‘I need you to disappear. To never leave. I need to have never met you or felt you. You. You. You. I need you.’“Your mistakes only define the rest of your life if you let them. Don’t let them.”‘“Men are a terrible waste of air.” “Utter garbage,” I agree. “Useless rubbish”’“It should have been him dancing with you”“I am fully, foolishly in love with him. He is the weak spot in my armor, the flaw in my defense. Damn my traitorous heart to the hells.”‘“Emifal Firdaant,” I say to him. “You've said that before. What does it mean?” I cannot quite look at him when I say it. “May death claim me first.” “Ah, no, my love.” He gathers me close. “You cannot go first. I could not make sense of the world if you did.”’ Triggers: Death, Murder, War, Genocide, Violence, Blood, Gore, Grief, Injury, Slavery, Torture, Emotional & Physical Abuse, Racism, Homophobia, Colonisation, Sexual content, Kidnapping, Fire, Classism, Confinement, Mental illness, Misogyny, Sexual assault, Toxic Relationships, etc.