Review December 2020Though not a perfect book, this is a perfect ending to the series.I've been with the series for a long time. I started it over the Summer of 2018 when Reaper came out and binged all the books as a way of coping with my Summer Teenaged Angst™.Needless to say, I've changed a lot since then and am now an adult reading this finale (if any of you are confused by my timeline, I was sixteen when I first read Ember and I'm nineteen now). So on the one hand I see the flaws in this series more clearly and it doesn't all line up with my current taste, but on the other I feel nostalgic for it.So was this worth the wait? Short answer: yes.Though I have a few critiques. Like the magic system of this series makes little sense and I wish there were more rules to it, it feels like magic does whatever the plot wants. There were a few plotpoints that all though set up, felt out of the blue. I was pretty bored for a good 200 pages in the middle. And I still do not give a single frickle frackle about Laia and Elias's romance.However, the plot is more than satisfactory. These feel like the right endings for every character arc. I can see some people will probably find the resolution anticlimactic, but I personally think it was perfect and fits the characters the best. I was especially happy with Helene's ending.Outside of the end, this as usual has the same addictive prose as the previous books and a crapton of political intrigue. After Reaper, they're in a pretty bleak space. However, this story offers an ember of hope that builds with the tension.And lastly, this one is the strongest in the series themewise. It mainly deals with family and loss and how do you move on from losing everything. It uses the villains especially well for these themes, adding a lot of needed depth to them, making them somewhat sympathetic even.And with that, we say goodbye to the Ember Quartet. I will miss it, but I'm glad it got the best possible endingUpdate March 2020Purple. The cover is PURPLE. Not yellow, PURPLE! *flips a table* bUt WhAt AbOuT hUfFlEpUfF?!?!?! THE OTHER COVER'S COLORS MATCH GRYFFINDER, RAVENCLAW, AND SLYTHERIN, BUT NO HUFFLEPUFF!!!!Oh well, at least it looks epic and probably the best cover of the series. Also we get it this year! December first!Update December 2018SOMEONE PLEASE TELL ME THAT 2020 RELEASE DATE IS A MISTAKE I CAN'T WAIT OVER A YEAR FOR THIS ESPECIALLY AFTER REAPER!!!!!! 😱😭😲😵😟😨😣I mean I get it if Sabaa Tahir needs extra time to make it the best finale it can be, but I don't think I can survive a wait that long 😞Prereview June 2018Can the cover be yellow? Because then we'd have: Gryffindor Ravenclaw Slytherin  Hufflepuff