DNF at 77% (pretty impressive huh?)Laaaaaaaaaadies & Gentlemeeeeeen! ☆☆ Why-The-Hell-Did-I-Try-To-Read-This Productions proudly present ☆☆ FEVER. DECAFFEINATED.☻It won't keep you reading until 4 am!☻It won't make you want to throw away your underwear across the room!☻Now stress-free!☻Now angst-free! ☻Faint-of-heart enabled! ☻In a steampunk setting! ☻Amidst the exotic landscapes of beautiful Scotland! ☻With a teenage MC!☻A dream come true!Why bother with the real lethal deal when you can enjoy the so-healthy-you-might-get-bored-out-of-your-mind, diet version?! Why? Because you're a TOTAL MASOCHIST that's why!Let's cup the crap and get down to it shall we? I'm pretty sure you are all dying to find out just how much The Falconer differs from Fever. Because clearly both series have ABSOLUTELY NOTHING IN COMMON: ☢ Meet Alina Mac Aielana. She was born to kill fae. It's a gift she had all along and never knew about. You don't say?! ☢ Her sister mother was killed by fae. You don't say?! ☢ Her weapon of choice is the Sinsar Dubh sgian dubh! You don't say?! ☢ Meet V'Lane Kiaran, the damnably beautiful Unseelie Prince daoine sìth who fights his own kind because they are cruel, unfeeling, destructive creatures who crave power above all else. And he is way above all that. You don't say?! ☢ V'Lane Kiaran takes away Alina Mac Aielana's seilgflùr (a magical thistle of all things) whenever they meet. You don't say?! ☢ When faieries are around the strangest thing happens: you become Priya faestruck. You don't say?!  [Unfortunately, this being YA-rated there are no bra on/bra off games to be expected *sighs*]☢ Meet Barrons Gavin. He can see the Fae too! You don't say?! [Again, this is YA-rated so he totally lacks JZB's awesome assholeness *sighs*]☢ The Unseelie evil fae are about to escape from a prison and slaughter thousands of humans. It will happen on Halloween when the lunar eclipse occurs on midwinter. You don't say?!Anything else?Aileana. This girl. She awakens the serial murderer in me with her serial I am's: I am so totally cool. I am not broken or empty. I am so freakingly awesome. I am a genius. I am an inventor. I am so unbelievably remarkable. I am unburdened. I am complete. I AM SO TIRED OF THIS SHIT ← that was me, not Aileana. Just in case you were wondering.And the icing on the cake: this was all MIND-BLOWINGLY BORING.Note to self: next time you want to self-destruct consider death by tequila. Not by YA.