I was hanging out with my good friend, Elizabeth May. We were riding unicorns along a deserted beach as our hair whipped in the wind, occasionally strands of her red and my brown locks blending together. We gazed lovingly together as we rode, smiling as joy filled our hearts in an almost mutual amount.When we pulled our unicorns to a break, having reached the peak of a cliff overlooking the sea, I took an opportunity to ask her a question.“Elizabeth,” I said whimsically as I gazed out at the setting sun glinting off the ocean, “Why did you break my heart with the ending of The Falconer?”She smiled sadly and beckoned me forward, cricking her finger in my direction to encourage me closer. I leaned in expectantly. In a flash she was on me, stabbing me several times in the abdomen before whipping behind me, yanking my hair back and slitting my throat. As the blood spewed out my throat, drenching my chest, she whispered in my ear, “The House of May sends its regards.”Then she dumped my body over the cliff, but I wasn’t paying attention to that. Because I was dead. My soul wasn’t, though. That is until she shot it, and it died too.I really enjoyed The Falconer. It wasn’t a perfect read. For example, I loved Aileana’s tinkering, and the various Steampunk aspects of this book. However, I feel like some of the aspects (Like a hovering hand that retrieves library books) were a little far-fetched. The world interacted a little with the Steampunk aspects, but most of the innovations seemed limited to Aileana’s Fae killing usage.There is a love interest. He is hot. Like, splooge hot. But after a while of going:I was like: JUST KISS ALREADY!Then there may or may not have been kissage. And I may or may not have been like:The writing was great. But you know what the best part is? May didn’t get all flowery about the romance. No. She got all flowery about the violence and massacre. I swear to god, for anyone who likes kicking ass, and protagonists who can do so – this is the perfect book for it. There is just a surplus of things that need to be shot, stabbed or blown up and Aileana is so very ready to oblige! With delicious, delicious abandon.The plot is the really healthy dose of angst, murdering the living hell out of things, and romantic tension. They cycle around you, one after the other, like you’re a little kid on a Merry-G0-Round. You know what’s coming next, but it’s so much fun that your mind is rocked any way.I’m kind of ready to rage quit over the ending. Like, I finished it and flipped the closest table I could get to. It’s the kind of ending where you’re going to want to be glad Elizabeth May is on twitter so that you can rage at her about it. (Her handle is @_ElizabethMay btw. You’re welcome.)Now, if you don’t mind, I’m off to go harass Elizabeth May some more.This review, and others like it, also appear on my blog, Cuddlebuggery Book Blog.This ARC was provided to me by the author for reviewing purposes. This did not entice me to be any less annoyingly opinionated than I would otherwise be. I am also friends with Elizabeth May. You have my permission to feel sorry for her.