"For this instant, I am whole again."•This book was a surprise. You should know that generally, steampunk and I don't get along well. I had two horrible experiences with The Illumination Paradox and The Iron Fey series and as a consequence I came to think of the steampunk genre as a cheap one (to those of you you are now screaming Heresy!, I apologize. It's just that the connection is kind of automatic in my mind now. You think I don't regret it?). Of course I've read also pretty good things like The Infernal Devices, and I just discovered the fabulous The Lunar Chronicles is considered steampunk too (though in my opinion it has nothing, or very very little, that can be called such; to me, it's sci-fi) but as I said, my subconscious has made up its mind. (Writing this sentence gave me an headache.)So, anyway, imagine my delight when I found out that not only was The Falconer readable, it was also entertaining, provided with a compelling cast of characters, and generally good. Let's rejoice!•The plot is very simple and unpretentious, and so were the world building and the characters, though for all these things I anticipate (and strongly hoe in) a general expansion and deepening. I appreciated everything, loved nothing. Nor hated, by the by. Which cannot be a bad thing. •I've been told more than once that book two is way -way- better than this one, and since my feeling is that this book is nothing but full of potential, I'm absolutely prone to believe it. I want more info of Faery history, on the Falconers, on everything. Also, some more chemistry between Aileana and Kiaran would be appreciated too -they are okay but not dazzlingly so, and with a little extra effort they can easily be. I am more than ready for this ship to sail.➽ Long story short, The Falconer is a book without infamy and without praise, though I more than gladly concede a bit of the latter. I want The Fallen Kingdom so bad I'll probably break my strictly non-binding vow and by more books soon. (Thank you universe for parents.) I'll keep you informed.