After reading this final installment, I didn't feel like writing a review because I realized I had very little nice to say about it. The writing itself is great, as far as style goes and there was not a moment where I felt bored. It sure kept me at the edge of my seat, however, not in a good way. Most of the book, I've found myself frustrated, hastily reading to reach a point where my hopes would be fulfilled and I could go, "Yes! Finally justice!" Alas, that moment never came. I have to say, this book disappointed me on several levels, the characters, the action (some scenes), the anti-climatic ending…I've broken up my review into sections, but I will only cover the big moments, there's a lot of minor moments and things I omit, because then this would be a novel. If you loved the book, don't read further. I am aware that I'm in the minority and most people seem to love the book, but this is just my opinion and I'm not here to argue with anyone, so if you disagree, good for you but whatever.The RegentThere's a lot to say about the Regent but for me, one of the major things that I've hated throughout the series and hoped would be shattered in this book is his Mary-Sue-esque quality. It's as though nobody can outsmart him, he is always two-five steps ahead of everyone, can predict nearly everything, keep everyone so afraid of him that nobody ever dares question him. He simply seems unstoppable and almighty, because no matter what L&D do, they can't even catch up to him, nevermind keeping the pace. They never once are on equal footing with him. I find that unbelievable. It worked, to an extent, in the first two books, but in this book I expected them to finally outmaneuver him. He doesn't seem to have any weaknesses, doesn't make any true mistakes that would cost him and have dire consequences. The Council doesn't once (except in the end) question him, they believe his every word or pretend to. He was never the King, so he never should've had even half the power he attained and the fact that not even these supposedly smart council members seemed to realize it or have the guts to question it or attempt to hear Laurent's side instead of blindly believing the Regent. There was no real opposition, no attempts on his life, no rebellion or anything. There was only ever Laurent, having to fight for what is rightfully his and go it alone. Nobody truly supported, no one seemed to notice the abuse, and the rest of what the Regent did, and nobody seemed to care. The Regent is elevated to some all powerful mastermind, and even the "mistakes" (never true ones) he makes seem calculated in by him. In the end, it was some minor character's bringing him down in an almost casual "just passing through" way. Laurent and Damen, even united, never once were a real threat to him and had zero chance to defeat him.The whole situation with Govart is hard to believe as well. Who is Govart? Some random soldier, a nobody, what's his word worth? Nothing. Some letter written by another random and now dead soldier also means zilch. So what stopped the Regent from simply killing Govart? Nothing. Yet for some mysterious reason he not only let him live, but also gave into his demands to an extent.  LaurentIt's like Laurent becomes a whole new character in this book. He suddenly stops being smart and going with his head, and runs with his emotions and heart instead, especially at Kingsmeet. He is ready to beg and die for a guy that he's hated for years, for a guy that killed his brother and destroyed his life. And he doesn't even care about it anymore. He easily jokes around with Damen about his possible interactions with Auguste, the hatred for Damen disappears lightning fast (in this book), hell, he even easily shrugs off years of abuse and eagerly dives into bed with Damen, with no flashbacks, or flinches caused by sudden memories, no triggers or anything. It's like parts of his memory had been been wiped and he is a whole new person with no awful baggage to surface at random moments. It's like, "Oh, you'd get on with my brother like a house on fire, I'm sure. I mean, if you hadn't killed him of course. But anyhow, he'd have liked you." Ummkay. In this book, he's no longer that smart, he's not careful, he takes stupid risks (like pretending to be Charls) and makes dumb, unnecessary sacrifices, not giving a damn about all the people he managed to rally behind him. He loses sight of priorities and jeopardizes everything he's worked so hard for, for what…love? Doubtful. It just doesn't make any sense. Then there are the moments when his characters slides into Mary-Sue territory as well, like escaping from the cell and killing Govart, the Okton and him winning with zero explanation on how he can even do it all considering it's a foreign game he's mostly likely never tried before. DamenI expected Damen's character to develop and grow in this book, become stronger, not physically, but mentally. If he is supposed to rule, be the king, he needs to be less naive and be able to make tough decisions. He didn't show it here and in the baby-scene it's absolutely obvious that he is unable to do so, unable to go down to that cell and face Jokaste and tell her something like, "You know what, I don't care about some baby, there'll be others, but I need to fight for my people and kingdom here and now. Execute her." Instead he sends Laurent and then follows and listens in, like some coward. I felt like his character didn't really grow, he didn't mature or learn much from previous mistakes as evident when he offers to spare Kastor's life. In that moment, it's clear that Damen did not learn a damn thing and didn't change. He remains the ever naive fool. He doesn't even seem to clue in to the fact that Laurent's been abused, that or he doesn't care.Then, there is the surrender. I don't buy it for a second. Damen is consistently portrayed as a fighter, a fighter that never gives up no matter the odds. He doesn't simply surrender especially when he knows it'll likely be his death and he has little chance of saving Laurent. I mean, he had to be absolutely brainless to think he had a shot in hell with his little speech about being proud to be Laurent's lover (like that means something?). I would've expected him to get into the palace through secret passages and make a diversion, like maybe setting it on fire to create chaos and have a chance of getting Laurent out of there or alt. finally killing the Regent. But nope, he surrenders. Probably gonna surrender when he's king and there's an enemy army standing at his gates, too. I mean why not. Seems like a solid plan. For all the time the author spent building up his character as a physically strong one, a warrior, etc. it didn't matter or play any real role in the end. He stood there like a lamb facing slaughter and he couldn't even dispose of Kastor on his own. JokasteIn this book, Jokaste was basically transformed into Laurent 2.0 with no clear reason. It made zero sense for her to be his female copy. I tried to find a possible explanation, but there was none and thus, the transformation seemed unnecessary and highly annoying. It made Damen seem shallow, and as though he only picked Laurent because he "fit the mold" not because he actually liked him for the person he is. Jokaste's character was also completely destroyed, suddenly she became a sorts of psychic hero sacrificing herself for Damen's life. She apparently could predict everything…and then that begs the question, if she could and was as smart as we are led to believe, why couldn't she attempt to change things up by having Kastor killed off somewhere or something. No, let's take the most complicated and all around horrible path! What. Again, makes no sense. And they let her escape, along with her half-royal bastard. Wonderful. The baby-situationFirst of all, this is such a tired, old cliche and I was disappointed to see it here. There's no need for soap-opera ploys in book like this. Knowing how treacherous and conniving Jokaste is, the fact that Damen would suddenly believe that the baby was his and that he would care that much about some baby he's never seen is unbelievable. In the other books iirc it was mentioned how he probably has a ton of children running around somewhere, and he clearly didn't care about them, so why would he care about this one. It wasn't believable at all that both of them would care so much for some random baby that might not even be Damen's that they'd basically throw away everything they'd worked so hard for and alter their plans to save it. The fates of two kingdoms/nations against that of one baby...well, the choice is obvious here. KingsmeetTruly one of the worst scenes in the book was the one at Kingsmeet. First of all, there is no actual reason (that'd make sense) for them to even go there. But they still risk everything to go there, meet the Regent, be utterly humiliated by him and let Laurent be captured in some mad sacrifice for Damen. It's out of character for both of them, for Laurent as a strategist he had to keep check of priorities, and he didn't. He acted like a complete fool, even when drunk he was never that stupid or careless. Damen…a fighter, his abilities showcased several times and bordering on supernatural, and he fails to use the opportunity to snap the Regent in half, really? Instead he goes raving mad attacking others and let's himself be subdued, this after he almost single-handedly won the battle in the beginning of the book? And when he thought Laurent betrayed him, on top of that? Now, with the clear threat right in front of them, and Laurent there, he should've gone for the kill, but nope. The CouncilThe Council seemed absolutely useless for most of the trilogy. I wonder why they had to be painted as some mindless fools who "had one job." They never seemed to question the Regent, they never seemed to even attempt to get through to Laurent, get to know him, hear his side, etc. and looking after him and helping him was their job. They were just there, for no apparent reason, than to suddenly and miraculously switch sides in the end. It made no sense for them to suddenly turn around, either. They had to have known that Laurent was abused, unless they were completely brain dead and blind, of course. No one cared. Then suddenly they hear about Aimeric and suddenly care? There had to be at least one person, smart enough and/or brave enough to oppose the Regent earlier or at least undermine his influence yet there was nobody. Their sudden shift in views seems to make no sense and there's no real explanation either. They might as well have thrown a damn coin to help them pick sides. Considering they are the ones to "save the day" I expected more believability. The battle with KastorThis is another scene where any semblance of realism got thrown out the window. Damen chases after Kastor, to kill him, as one would expect considering everything that went down. But no, Damen chased after him to offer to spare his life. Believability - zero. He should've just let him get away then. After everything that Kastor's done, Damen still has trouble finishing him off? I don't believe it, not for a second. Kastor is the man that 1. Damen barely even knows, 2. Killed his father, 3. Betrayed Damen, 4. Usurped the throne and 5. Conspired with the Regent. He attacks Damen with intention to kill, and yet Damen still can't retaliate. At this point, I wondered if Damen suffered great brain damage or something. Then, along comes Laurent, to save the day and manages to dispatch Kastor despite being tied up for hours prior and despite Kastor being stronger and more experienced. Wow. Plausibility, what's that. The EndingAfter building up the characters (L&D) in the first two books, showcasing their strength and intelligence to then go and end the book with them surviving thanks to sheer luck, well…If it weren't for a random happenstance, a chance of two minor character coming along and providing some poorly supported evidence and then, amazingly, the Council actually believing them, both Laurent and Damen would have been executed. I found it unbelievable for the two of them to make such great mistakes, after enduring hardships and working so hard to do away with the Regent. They hung by a very thin thread and only survived thanks to minor characters and a luck. To me, that is a ludicrous ending to this trilogy. It destroys them as characters and no amount of suspend disbelief can help it here. In this book, they are brought lower than low, humiliated on several occasion, going so far as to beg on their knees and they never get the chance to truly retaliate, there's never a chance for them to fight the Regent and defeat him. They never even get close to being on equal footing with him, nevermind winning. That was the biggest disappointment to me and made no sense. All this build up, all the sacrifices made, all the experience, all the hardships to result in such an anti-climatic end. A true shame.The book could've done with an Epilogue, providing a glimpse at the aftermath and tying up some loose ends. I know there's a short story coming later, but that's different. The ending of this book seemed abrupt and uncertain, leaving too many questions. What it came down to was this, "By sheer luck, the main chars escaped execution and the bad guys were quickly killed. A true miracle! End of story." After waiting for years, I expected it to be better, I expected an epic fight, a grand finale, a true victory and justice served. Therefor, I am highly disappointed with this lukewarm, anti-climatic end, where some minor whatstheirnames characters come in to save the day, while the main characters are being utter fools with zero explanation for it./End of unpopular opinion. I loved the first two books, so it pains me to give this book only one star. Alas.