The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a thriller following an investigation into the murder of a girl who is murdered every singe night. The main character switches bodies every day in an attempt to get different points of view. And yes, it is wild.So the thing I’ve seen praised about this book is that the plot is ridiculously complex, and it very much is. I am in awe over the tight plotting used in this book. This must have taken a very long outline and the complexity certainly makes this stand out. I think, however, that the marketing has been very focused on plot twists - I was only seriously shocked by a few twists reading this book, and I’ve already forgotten what, exactly, it was. The delight in this book is not in plot twists, but in seeing the full story come together. I will say that the actual ending, though I predicted parts of it, had enough surprises that it was still delightful. As with many adult thrillers, I struggled to connect to or care about any of the characters. The lead character is almost completely lacking in personality, which makes sense given the entire theme of him being absorbed into bodies, but doesn’t work, as we’re led to believe that he is in constant danger of becoming something awful but never given details to notice or a reason to care. There’s a way of writing a compelling character with amnesia; high motivation, people around them we care about, etc, and this book doesn’t do a great job. I was mostly, however, really disappointed by the bodies Aiden switches into: almost every person he occupies is a dislikable person. Bell is quite boring and later revealed to be terrible, Mr. Collins spends his entire day in agony, Ravencourt is terrible (and for unrelated reasons his section was my absolute least favorite of the book). That’s just the first three, and I will not be going into the rest because they get much worse. Something I really enjoyed about this book, however, was the message - this book is very focused on realizing the changeability of people, and though I never cared about any of these characters much, I did find myself believing in and enjoying the message. I think this message is probably the most daring the book ever gets. ..So I actually considered and came very close to rating this book a four star, but I found myself forgetting it very quickly. With a thriller of this type, I usually would have kept my rating a four no matter how much I forgot. However, the fatphobia in this book was utterly ridiculous. I found it rather disturbing to read such an absolute distate from the narrator and author for the fatness of the character he inhabits: Ravencourt is described as a “pig” and a “cow” over and over, and repeatedly described as “disgusting” with seemingly no regard for his humanity. The voyeuristic imagery of fatness is, exclusively and completely, meant to disgust and shock the audience. It is the main thread of a good 20% of the book. a few quotes are stated here, and this reviewer only got to the beginning of this section, at 20%, so can I just say: it’s like, five times that many. I found this incredibly distasteful from about the third comment on, and the near-constant repetition of this rhetoric had me wanting to put the book down. I'm really wondering what the authorial intent is here, and perhaps more importantly, how the author must interact with overweight people in his own life.I also felt that rape was used as a plot device in a way that made me somewhat uncomfortable – SPOILER: a bunch of the book is told through the pov of a person who committed a rape approximately two hours before, and it’s criticized, but… the impacts on the victim are very much ignored. This is a huge and very common issue in literary fiction, but I also hated it and it impacted my enjoyment of this as a thriller.So… despite many good elements, I kind of just want to tell you to read The Westing Game instead. Nothing but respect for MY president. TW: really intense fatphobia that the author really sounds like he agrees with, suicide, and rape. ✨Arc received from the publisher via Netgalley for an honest review. release date: 8 September 2018💜bro read with EmBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube