I’m at a loss for words as where to begin with my review. I don’t know that I will be able to convey into words my love of Stuart Turton’s book, “The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle.” A work of genius and for anyone who loves mysteries or the true old-fashioned “who dunnit”, this is your book. This is not a modern day mystery/thriller but an honest to goodness murder mystery with a multilayered plot. This work of art requires your complete focus and attention otherwise you might miss one of the many crucial details. I found myself going back and rereading pages to make sure I didn’t miss a clue. At times, I felt totally lost but then another clue was revealed and I would be back on track.Turton’s book is not linear in the way the mystery is first revealed and ultimately solved, it will have the feel of taking one step forward and two steps back before the bigger picture becomes clear. He gives us a complex, intelligent and original novel that gave me renewed faith that there are great mystery writers out there with stories that force us to use our brain cells to figure it out. As I was nearing the end of the book, I started to turn the pages a little slower as I wistfully realized this novel was coming to an end. It’s the ultimate paradox, you want to get to the end to see the conclusion but it also means the end of this remarkable experience. As a fan of escape rooms, I love the challenge of trying to solve the mystery to get out of the room. Now imagine solving the mystery, unlocking the room only to find yourself in another room and faced with another mystery and repeating this pattern multiple times before you can escape. Solving the mystery of who killed Evelyn Hardcastle is only the beginning to unraveling the bigger mystery. The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a labyrinth, a three dimensional puzzle and a great ride all in one book. Run, don’t walk, to get a copy of this book but then catch your breath, pour yourself a glass of wine and savor each page of one of the best mysteries you will read. I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley.