I also have this discussion where I give you the highlights of why I thought Ms Deonn was playing in my face.What did y'all have me reading out here...I thought that the first book was very meh, didn't have a whole lot going for it, but it was serviceable. It wasn't until I had some distance and heard thoughts away from the hype that my own thoughts started to turn. So I did go into this book expecting little, but I didn't expect the book to dig under the bar and reach new depths of foolishness...My real issue with this is that the narrative feels bloated. It was very hard for me to slip into the world that the narrative was trying to craft because it didn't feel believable. I appreciated the minor time skip at the beginning of the book, but then the story wanted me to believe that Bree was going to class and that the High Council [ aka The Magical KKK ] wanted them to go to tests and be students... something sis couldn't even do in the first book.It continued to bother me that every interactiont hat Bree had with another Black person [ be it the root council at the beginning she warned of the Merlins arrival, to Samira, to the people at the Lounge / Underground Railroad ] all felt like business interactions... For the last part of the book to be wrapped up in the root of Bree's character, her ancestry trying to teach her something, the way she continued to feel distanced from it all was very weird. There is not having Black people near you and there is the narrative forcing this Black person into isolation and it often felt like sis was content to go through life never talking to a Black person but constantly remarking about how it wasn't fair that Sel got to have a community of fellow Merlins at the beginning of the book or how Vera fucked over all her descendants. Something about it rubbed me the wrong way... I truly don't know what Black experience is being captured and reflected with Bree.The romance continued to be lackluster. If you share a slaving owning great grand pappy I think it's weird if you want to smash them, that's gotta be your cousin. But then the dynamic with Sel has never actually materialized. So much of his actions in the last book were very much the red flag of racism, and even here there was nothing until Deonn remembered that there was a half assed attempt at a love triangle supposed to be happening and tried to include some crumbs.As executed the book feels more like a rough collection of ideas that are loosely strung together. Even if I don't care to see Bree trying to rescue Nick from the events of the last book, that would have been so much stronger than this Underground Railroad to protected by the ancestors Plantation arc we got here.... None of the ideas presented felt well thought out or executed on a level that at all resembled polished.This clearly wasn't for me, and I cannot think of a single person I would ask to read this... I'm happy people have connected with this story, but I gotta think that this is my stop, particularly when I have nary a clue how many entries are supposed to comprise this series, but given how bloated this book was I cannot imagine one book giving a satisfying conclusion to anyone. Shout out to Ms Deonn, I hope the checks keep clearing, but I won't be returning to see anything more of this narrative play out.