TW//  murder, racism, drugging, grief, gore, mentions of rape, mentions of slavery, cheating It pains me to write this review. Legendborn is one of my favorite books of all time, so it’s truly disappointing for me to hate the sequel this much and it’s making me question what I even liked about the first book.Legendborn was a well-crafted fantasy with rich Arthurian mythology, interesting characters, and a believeable love story that occured on the side. In contrast, Bloodmarked was an angsty love triangle where the main character cheats on her boyfriend, all the characters are annoying, and most of the mythology from the first book doesn’t even matter.A huge majority of the first book was just getting the readers accustomed to how the whole lines idea works with the descendants of the Knights of the Round Table, yet most of the lines barely even matter in this sequel. The only lines who matter are Arthur, Lancelot, and Gaiwan. Why was there so much effort put into laying out how the Arthurian mythology works in the first book if most of the lines and all of the squires aren’t even going to matter in the sequel? It makes me so mad. I got so fascinated with how the whole world works in the first book, but my fascination didn’t carry over to this book. At least one squire should’ve joined the main crew in Bloodmarked because then maybe it would feel like the complex Arthurian mythology from the first book actually mattered in this one. It felt like this book wasn’t really a continuation of the first book but rather a spin-off book involving a few of the characters from the first book.It’s impossible to get farther into my review without mentioning the mess that is the love triangle. It was pretty obvious that there was going to be a love triangle between Bree, Sel, and Nick from the first book and based on the cover, I knew that this book was going to develop the Sel portion of the love triangle, but I didn’t expect for it to be the major plot. Every fantasy element and friendship was shoved to the side just so that Bree and Sel’s relationship could develop. What pisses me off the most though is that it’s straight up cheating in this one because Bree is in an estabilished relationship with Nick. Sel even acknowledges this by referring to Nick as Bree’s boyfriend. They both know it’s cheating yet they choose to flirt and sometimes do more despite that. Nick didn’t even really matter to the love triangle in this story. He was completely out of the picture for 99% of this book, so it didn’t even feel like a well balanced or a well-written love triangle. Had Nick been in the story more and had Nick not been in a relationship with Bree, I wouldn’t have minded the love triangle as much. I generally don’t mind love triangles, but this one got on my nerves. I also felt like the Kingsmage oath should’ve prevented Sel from acting on his feelings for Bree. Tracy Deonn thought through every last detail of how the Kingsmage oath would work to make Sel loyal to Nick, but wouldn’t making moves on Nick’s girlfriend make Sel disloyal to Nick? Why isn’t there a clause concerning romance in the Kingsmage oath? It doen’t make sense to me.The plot of this book (when you ignore the love triangle elements) was a problem for me as well. The characters kept going in circles. They didn’t actually do much to advance their causes until the very end of the book. It felt like they would take one step forward and then all of a sudden they’d be back down onto the step that they were just on previously. This caused the pacing of the story to drastically slow down and it made the plot truly unable to progress for much of the story. Again, this book’s main purpose felt like it was to advance the love triangle and not much else. It’s the worst case of second book syndrome that I’ve ever read. I also have one more plot criticism that I’ll hide in spoiler tags because it contains a major spoiler:  I hated how they were “searching for Nick” for most of the book and then all of a sudden they can magically drive to find him in one hour and all the concern of not being able to get Nick because of Isaac just straight up disappears. It felt sloppy. Now there were a few characters who I actually liked, but their scenes were very miniminal. I may read the final book if the synopsis makes it seem like these characters will be major players in the book. These characters are Nick, Greer, and Lark. Greer especially was basically non-existent in Bloodmarked, but had they been in the story more, I might’ve enjoyed this one.Most of the rest of my review will simply be a rant about the characters in this book and I don’t even feel bad about it. I had to suffer through over 500 pages of these annoying characters, so I deserve a space to rant.First of all, Bree. She carried a lot of the first book for me, but she felt like an almost entirely different person in this book. She became a stubborn and angsty teen. She was even stubborn with her friends and people she should trust. Her stubborness got her places and helped her discover who she was in Legendborn, but her stubborness went too far in this book. She also seemed to have a mutual respect and love for Nick in the fist book, but all of a sudden her respect and love for him disappeared because of a part demon boy who treated her like garbage. It made me lose respect for her, too, because she had plenty of opportunities to talk to Nick yet she couldn’t even respect Nick enough to break up with him before she started flirting with Nick’s Kingsmage. Then Sel - the part demon who treated Bree like garbage. I couldn’t stand how he treated Bree like scum for 97% of the book but then all of a sudden he decides to be nice so that he can start being romantic with her. He seemed to be completely inconsiderate of Bree’s feelings but all of a sudden Bree is supposed to just forgive his behavior and be with him? He was possessive over her, too. He was like an Edward Cullen level of jerk, which if you love Edward, you’ll love Sel in this book but I hate Edward, hence, why I hate book two Sel. I really liked Sel in the first book, so it sucks that I hated him in this one. He had a potential to become better than Nick, but his character arc didn’t progress in a way that I liked.I feel bad for not liking Alice because she truly seemed to care for Bree, but her mannerisms and personality were annoying. I’ve read several best friend characters like her in young adult novels and they never fail to get on my nerves. I’m only mentioning Valec briefly because my annoyance with him seems small compared to the other characters, but why was he hitting on Bree when Bree’s a literal minor? It was borderline pedophilia.I have to mention William, too, since he’s important to this book but I just feel really indifferent to him. I liked him at first and though it’s harsh for me to say this, I got sort of bored with him by the end of this book.I’m glad that I only read Legendborn earlier this year so that I didn’t have to wait the full two years just to read this disappointing sequel, but I’m still mad that Bloodmarked didn’t live up to the first book. As I said earlier in my review, I may continue on with this series since there’s a few characters who I actually enjoy in this story, but this series went downhill really fast for me and I’m really upset by it.