Warning, this book may possibly garner you strange looks if you decide to read it on a bus, a subway, or a coffee shop due to random bouts of sniggering, chuckling, and outright guffawing. There is usually fair warning, though. If the Quarkbeast enters the scene, make a hasty exit and read it where out loud laughter is ok.Seriously, I can only think of two others who have been able to make me laugh quite as hard with descriptions. 1) Douglas Adams with his Hitchhiker's Guide books, and 2) Brandon Sanderson with his Alcatraz books. Welcome to the club, Fforde.Jennifer Strange has the daunting task of keeping a gaggle of waning wizards and magicians gainfully employed and out of trouble in a world where magic is on the downswing. Jennifer herself is only 15 (16 in two weeks), but is exceptionally mature for her age. That's a really good thing too, because things get a little extra complicated when some of the pre-cogs start getting visions about the death of the last dragon on Sunday at noon. So what you might ask. Well, when the dragon dies then a huge chunk of land inbetween two uneasy nations goes up for grabs and whoever can grab it first gets it. People from around the country and globe start lining up on the borders ready to pounce. Things then snowball when Jennifer finds herself to be the last dragonslayer, and suddenly in the middle of global attention, trying to prevent wars, outmanouver greedy businesses and kings, prevent the death of magic and understand dragons. Thankfully, Jennifer has Tiger Prawns, a fellow foundling just assigned to help manage the magicians, and her faithful Quarkbeast to help. What is a Quarkbeast you may ask? Well, I could tell you but that would ruin some of the best lines in the book, so you'll just have to read for yourself. I'll just say that the Quarkbeast is awesome and I want one.Notes on content: Unlike some of his books for adults, Fforde has proved that he can write clean for the younger crowd in this book. There is only one mild swear word. There is no sexual content of any kind. There is very little violence at all, too. There is one shooting (without any description) and one stabbing (again, without description). A couple people get vaporized when they touch the Dragonland forcefield, but no description. The last half of the book is pretty tense as some of the people wanting the land get pretty ruthless in trying to manipulate Jennifer, but all does turn out well. (And she handles it with a mostly cool head and tact.)