🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟[[[How many stars am I legally able to give this before it's considered weird??]]]Here, book, have them aaaaallllllll:YOU EARNED IT.I'M DYING OF JOY AND WONDER AND LOVE.Bottom line, this was breathtaking.In a strange way, this was my ideal book. If I were to write a book, it would be this one's soul twin. I've only ever felt this way about The Love That Split the World and now this one. Not that these are my absolute favorite books of all time (although they're on the list) but that they both resonate deeply with both my sentiments and my imagination. This book is about a runaway princess who finds herself in a magical world that only existed in the bedtime stories she told her younger sister. She is being forced into a political marriage and plans to save her nation from war. Yet, on the day of the wedding (and groom selection), she is visited by a mystical stranger who poses as one of her suitors. This stranger won't tell her about himself or even show his full face, but he offers her an escape from her life, and against logic/reason, she accepts. The story unfolds from there in a way that is both surprising and uplifting.Usually I'm a character-driven reader. I almost always love or hate a book based on it's characters. This one had great characters, but what really blew me away was the world and language. It is lush and enchanting, almost reminding me of magical realism despite the fact that there is a separate magic world here. When is comes to descriptions I often find myself skimming through them while reading. I generally find them unnecessary, simply there to either allow the author to wax poetic, or convince us all of the world-building that may or may not be there. Yet, with this book I became stupendously wrapped up in the colors of the words, the vibrant, ethereal world built through the magic of the author's fingertips. It was dreamlike, transcending a mere fantasy story into a realm all its own. It's a like a glistening, sparkling gem garden of pure creativity. My heart and soul are in love with this book.