can you hear that? It’s the sound of my crushing disappointment at a poorly executed hades&persophone retelling 2 generous starsOk, first, let’s give recognition where recognition is due: This is a fantasy in which the MC is south asian and so are the secondary characters and it’s own voices!! Better yet, the author was heavily inspired by indian mythology when writing this book! so if that sounds promising and interesting to you, you should still give this book a chance despite my personal dislike of the book.anything else positive worth mentioning? … nah.THE WRITING & PLOT to be fair, at first, I really enjoyed the author’s prose and thought that some of the metaphors written were beautiful. On top of that, the first 150 pages of the book or so were so action filled, with so many twists and turns at every movement. Resultantly, I genuinely thought I was signing up for an incredibly written and plotted fantasy and could not, for the life of me, understand why this novel was so polarizing for so many GR users. My genuine interest in those first 150 pages is the only reason why this book warrants two stars instead of a single one, because the rest of this book was a fucking mess.after reaching that 150 page mark, the plot stopped being exciting and started being confusing and I blame it completely on Chokshi’s writing. it felt and read like the author was so consumed with shoving as many metaphors as she could into her sentences that she forgot to make sure that the sentences and metaphors needed to make actual sense.  the plot was all over the place and the writing stopped being pretty and instead became frustrating. I JUST WANTED TO UNDERSTAND WHAT WAS GOING ON and though I got the gist of it in order continue along and not DNF the book, it nevertheless left me bitter. I don’t have any direct quotes on how illogical her sentences were but check any 1 or 2 star GR review and you’ll see what I mean.THE CHARACTERS Maya maya is such an ambitious character who constantly seeks power and influence, and honestly, it was so refreshing to read about her amidst the plethora of YA fantasies with MC’s who somehow-conquer-evil-in-fantasy-books-but-would-get-completely-chewed-up-spit-out-and-stepped-on-irl. She was clearly a Slytherin: ambitious, loyal to her very small social circle and influenceable. and I was all for it! But g0d, did she constantly hate on other girls/women and slut-shamed every girl/woman she didn’t like. this book was written in 2016 -- why is slut-shaming still so prominent in YA literature? Amarshoutout to a love interest flatter than my double A chest. there’s honestly nothing I can tell you about amar aside for the fact that he was the King of the Underworld or whatever and that he was so inconsistent as a love interest--as in, one moment he would be the most respectful and honourable guy towards Maya and the next moment he’d act so entitled towards her. Manipulation at its finest, I guess. But given that he’s the love interest, I DON’T THINK THAT WAS THE AUTHOR’S INTENTION.THE RELATIONSHIPThings less instantaneous than the insta-love in this novel: •	The abridged version of the Fresh Prince theme song •	Microwavable meals•	The time allocated for pedestrians to cross a busy street•	The speed of light To CONCLUDE, this was yet another example of how I should probably STOP BUYING BOOKS (AND THEIR SEQUELS) FOR THEIR COVERS. smh-----I'm not sure whether I liked or disliked this book to be honest so I'm going to abstain from rating it until my mind is made up because I need time to process ??so rating and review to come-----buddy read with the lovely Rachaelthis cover is arguably the prettiest cover I've ever seen in any book and the content better be just as beautiful or I'll cry