There, my queen,” he said. “A constellation to wear in your hair.”“My star-touched queen,” he said softly, as if he was remembering something from long ago. “I would break the world to give you what you want.”** The Star Touched Queen is an ensorcelling bewitching piece of unicorn uber shittttt. No kidding. ^^**✏ I know I'm behaving in quite Aeergia( The only goddess I know about is the one who is famous for being lazy)fashion these days and being a bad friend, but I just had to tell everyone about The Star Touched Queen. Now the writing might be a hit or miss , and fortunately I belong to the category that appreciates this beauty. Normally, I'm not a fan of figurative or metaphorical language. My love for metaphors is all but enhanced by the book that shattered me. TE HEEEE. But Roshani Chokshi penning style is so...Classically poetic that there is a great chance you will be bewitched, befuddled, mesmerized etc etc. Go find the remaining synonyms from a thesaurus. I'm so tired of cramming synonyms at this point. ✏ I have seen a lot of people label the relationship between Amar and Maya as instalovey and you can say I was surprised when a special word reincarnation came into the scene and it all started making sense. That's when all the facepalms at the presumptions I had heard started. You see they have been in love since the dawn of time,they just or just Maya don't remember it yet. It is a sort of a temporary glitch in their hippocampus but their amygdala will step in to work it all out once they meet.*wink* So there is officially no instalove here. Label it as one of those "culturally and historically" accurate things. I hope whatever I said made sense. I wanted a love thick with time, as inscrutable as if a lathe had carved it from night and as familiar as the marrow in my bones. I wanted the impossible, which made it that much easier to push out of my mind.---I'm a good person and a shitty writer but The Star Touched Queen deserves all the stars in the world. Yes, I'm willing to quote John Green and use a GR cliche. I completed it during the span of 24 hours and then listened to my googoo-eyes playlist for a week. My non existent belief in love at first sight is restored and I can die happy now. Also, major +ve +ve +ve +ve points for Roshani Chokshi(how pretty is her name) I might have shamelessly sent her a FR as she didn't overly emphasize on the characters' appearance. I'm soooo tired of reading odes to greenish hazel green eyes that look blue in spring or the girl with the classic Bella Swan syndrome.✏Now another thing I'm going to mention will probably imply that I'm a bad feminist okay with girl hating. Err women living in polygamist circles are usually bitter and their conniving ways and backbiting nature is not sugarcoated in the book. This happens and they are not getting a free leash owing to some misguided sisterhood and just because I belong to the female species. I don't believe in sexism, male or female. ---Call me shallow but one star in my rating is reserved for the featured boy, if he gets to my BBF list. Amar's eternal love(the dude's name literally means eternal) for Maya is beautiful but we don't get to see a lot of him throughout the story and his personality apart from his love is mysterious. But still, they are a match made in hell heaven or somewhere in between.