Well here we are, at the end of maybe the most immense series I’ve ever read. These books are nothing short of extraordinary and I will repeat what I said in my previous reviews: they are a must read for sci-fi and fantasy fans.The Broken Earth series is the perfect blend of science-fiction and fantasy, with some dystopia thrown in for good measure. Since this the the final book in the trilogy, I’m not goin to put any specific book spoilers in this review, and instead talk about the series in its entirety.At the center of these books is a story about a changing earth, which has both sharp differences and eerie similarities to our own. The Stillness, as it’s called, is subjected to a fifth season every indeterminate number of years, which unleashes cataclysmic levels of geological devastation onto the dispersed populations. People have organized themselves into Comms, as well as by castes, primarily as means of survival. Due to the unpredictable nature of these seasons, humanity’s growth outside of fulfilling basic needs has been stunted for thousands of years.Among the humans exist a divergent set of people known as orogenes, who have varying levels of power over the earth itself. If someone is discovered to be an orogene, best case scenario they are sent to a training facility known as the Fulcrum to teach them to use their powers and contribute to society. Worst case they are killed by their communities before the Fulcrum’s Guardians are able to retrieve them.“When we say that ‘the world has ended,’ remember—it is usually a lie. The planet is just fine.”The world of Ths Broken Earth series is the way it is primarily because of human actions. The books take a harsh but necessary look at climate change and the human obstacles in the way of correcting previous environmental missteps. A huge stress by N.K. Jemisin is put on the fact that the Earth does not need life in order to exist, but we—life—need to preserve the earth if we plan on surviving ourselves. But it’s the human elements of this series that are the real heart and soul of these books. Through the races of people on the page, Jemisin creates a stark comparison to how our own human history has subjugated and conquered other groups of people. Dehumanization is at the root of all of it, and is a necessary step in stripping people of their rights, livelihood and autonomy. And the generation trauma will be felt years and years beyond the initial offense, especially if left untreated and unacknowledged. History is written by the winners, and it must be thoroughly interrogated if you’re looking for anything that gives even a passing resemblance to the truth. “Conquerors live in dread of the day when they are shown to be, not superior, but simply lucky.”On a more personal level, Jemisin’s characters are filled to the brim with raw and often very painful emotions. They’re grieving and they’re despondent and they’re angry. There are moments of hope and levity, but this is a series that will make you feel things, so be prepared. So much of that hurt is rooted in love. The love of a mother to her children, the love between a child and surrogate parent. The love of a community and of humanity. Even when they all seem to let you down or fail you, that love is still present in the way you decide to keep living for them anyway. The mother/daughter relationship in particular between Nassun and Essun was so wrought and complicated it was hard for me not to start thinking about my relationship with my own mother. These books will really sink their claws into you.“I think...that if you love someone, you don’t get to choose how they love you back.”A brief note one complaint I keep hearing—I don’t really understand the people who are bothered by part of the books being written in second person. Maybe they’re just so used to first or third that second just throws them off completely? There’s a reason these portions are told in this way, one that’s relevant to the plot. And even if it was just a rhetorical or stylistic choice, that’s the prerogative of the author, in my opinion. It just feels like a lot of backseat writing to me, and if you get anything from reading this series, it’s that every choice N.K. Jemisin makes is deliberate, considered and probably brilliant.This isn’t a quick or easy read. Some of the lore is very dense and you’re going to have to deal with unfamiliar terminology and names. But the examination of a complicated humanity, the kind of love that causes pain and what we owe one another & the world we all inhabit is totally worth that commitment for me.“Don’t be patient. Don’t ever be. This is the way a new world begins.”Me after finishing the Broken Earth trilogy, contemplating what life’s existence even means.