"THE BEAST RAGED; IT PUNCTURED the air with its spite."This is the first book in a trilogy. I'm not going to lie. This books starts off really interesting but the middle takes FOREVER! I understand it is world building, but can we get a little action thrown in? All, and I mean all, of the action is in the beginning and the end. Hence my rating. Don't get me wrong. I loved learning the ins and outs of the world, but it was a lot of information. Throwing in something to get the heart pumping here or there would've made it more palatable. Hopefully the next book will be more action since all the world building was done in this one.On to the characters. Tea (pronounced Tey-uh but I still read it as Tea, fight me!) has been through so much. First her brother, Fox, goes off to war and gets killed by a daeva (a beast if you will). As if that's not awful enough, at his funeral, she accidentally raises him from the dead. Realizing she is a dark asha, or bone witch, she must leave her family and start her training. Fox, being her familiar, is allowed to accompany her. There are other characters, minor in my opinion, that either enhance her training or make her life miserable, but none stand out as worth mentioning.The story itself goes back and forth from the present, where Tea is telling her story to a bard (storyteller) from Drycht, and to the past, which is the story she is telling. I am normally not a fan of the flip flop but in this case, it is why I kept reading. I needed to know what happened between what I was reading and why the present seemed so gloomy in comparison.All in all, the book was really interesting, in depth, and imaginative, but a bit boring in the middle. It was still a good book but it could've used a little more action, drama, or progress. Anything to make it stand out. If you prefer world building to action, this is definitely for you. If you don't enjoy world building, this is not for you. If you can be patient and get through the world building, give it a try. I at least, am very curious to see where this is going."A cold wind blew from the north, and with it the promise of night --- a growing darkness tempered only by the moon above, burning with all the light to see."