I was so excited when I got an ARC of this book but when the reviews started coming in I started getting a little bit apprehensive. I think having lower expectations made me enjoy this story a lot more than I would have originally. The pace was a little slow and not much happened with the plot. Its more character driven with some great world building thrown in. However Im a plot driven reader and I would have loved for the plot to move along quicker. Overall I liked the plot but I wanted more action. I would have prefered demon fighting over time spent reading about her daily routine scrubbing floors or learning how to sing.I thought all the different diverse characters were compelling. I enjoyed the main character and the bards perspective. Tea journey and developpement was fascinating to read about. I loved her brother Fox and their whole relationship. His protectiveness was adoring. I didnt like Parmina and Zoya but I dont think I was suppose to. When Zoya bullied Tea she didnt do anything about it which frustrated me. We dont get enough of Lady Mykaela in my opinion shes always gone or in bed. I didnt get a chance to connect with her as much as I would have wanted. For most of the book there wasnt much romance but I didnt mind.I hate overly descriptive scenes but it didnt bother me as much as it usually does in this book. The constant hua clothes descriptions got really boring but some of the details added an enchanting atmosphere to the story and built up the world wonderfully. I just think the daily routine and some of the details could have been cut out to shorten the book. That would have help put more focus on the plot. I enjoyed the switch between present time and when Tea became an asha. Although I needed to reminded myself often that the present time was told from the Bards perspective.I really loved the ending and the twists. I didnt see them coming at all and Im usually pretty good at predicting them. This book really took me by surprised in the best possible way. I cant believe Im going to have to wait over a year for the sequel. I need to know what happens next right now. This book was so good I hope I get the chance to review the sequel. I would definitely recommend it to anyone looking for an atmospheric and unpredictable character driven fantasy. Im really thankful to sourcebooks for the arc of this book.* Received this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review*