Harry Dresden, wizard-for-hire and Winter Knight, joins a group of unsavory characters to pay off a debt owed by Mab and to steal something incredibly valuable from a god. And he thought he had bad days before this. At least he still has a way with words."... Nicodemus is a murderous murdering murderer," I said. "And if he's picking a crew, they're going to be just as bad." pg 26, ebookIs there anyone he can trust? Can he even trust himself with the strange "parasite"-thing growing in his head?"Sometimes when you find yourself alone, for whatever reason, you review every little thing you know about someone, searching your memory for small, subtle things that you may have missed about them." pg 10, ebook.Any guesses on what they're going to be stealing?"My sources say he's the collector of the supernatural world. He's famous for it. Art, treasure, gems, jewels, antiques, you name." pg 37, ebook.Skin Game is a clever mix of heist and The Dresden Files. I thoroughly enjoyed it. And now my heart is broken because the next book isn't written yet.We were finally getting somewhere with Harry's relationships with his friends and a certain someone in particular. (No spoilers!) Harry was learning how to juggle his "mantle of power". Molly was coming into her own unique situation.We've learned about angels, demons, fairies, pixies, gods and more in this series. I've really come to enjoy the world and the strange things that happen in it. I love the shifting balance of power and how when Harry's up, he's really up. And when he's down... well..."And since when had I become the guy that things happened to ten years ago?" pg 49, ebook.I think all of the readers are wondering that too. Not that we're complaining because this series seems to have such staying power. I really wish it would keep going for awhile longer, just spit-balling here, how about another 15 books? :) Or, at least, perhaps we could tie up the loose ends."I know that things happen to people," he said. "And maybe you've got excellent and real reasons for doing what you've done. But... at the end of the day, there's just no replacement for being here." pg 84, ebook.I like being in this world and I think plenty of other readers do too. Jim Butcher, give the people what they want. Write, please. Write now!