Saga, Volume 4: The first three volumes are in comparison to this fourth volume light and fun. I am reading this roughly eight years after I read it when it initially came out, and I was so dismayed by its darkness that I gave it four stars, and this was consistent with a lot of reviewers at the time, but now I am sure it is just like the others, a bonafide five-star volume. And in part because of the struggle in it.Toddler Hazel tells the story in this volume from some time in the future of struggles of her parents and her Mom's work in sort of pay-per-view theater, and her stay-at-home Dad's struggles with parenting, and marriage. Yup, Hazel narrates the story of the break-up of her parents’ marriage, which is kind of unacceptable to most readers, given how crazy we are about this couple. Let me not spoil things for ya, but let's just say the current number of volumes is nine, and counting. So, there’s that to consider. We also learn of a missing robot child, so this is really a parenting volume. Ad another thing it continues to be about is Fiona Staples's award-winning art, clearly, which is always pretty stunning, with lots of beautiful and creatively conceived and sometimes amusing creatures. Invention, with humor. Very entertaining. That's one of the clear winning aspects of this, even if the plot at this point is sort of domestically focused. The sheer beauty and joyful invention, à la Star Wars, the father figure of this series.Another starring attraction here for me is as always for me Brian Vaughn's witty dialogue, establishing character and tone; it's entertaining, it feels very contemporary, it's engaging. And profane, humorously so. This not Star Wars-like in that it is very violent at times in this issue, we lose people we care about, it’s war, and there are raunchy sequences, too. It’s for adults, not kiddies. What else do I like/notice?*I like all these murderous freelancers (hit men and women), who have their own unique personalities: The Stalk, The Will, The Brand.*I like Gwendolyn and now eight-year-old Sophie, who traveled to find Marko to learn of a spell to save The Will. With The Will’s Lying Cat, such a wonderful invention* I like the adorable Ghus, cute creature*I really do like the inclusion of the marital and personal struggles of Markus and Alana; it happens! Temptations, drugs, work/parenting balance*I like the inclusion of a crazed robot who is enraged at the economic inequities of the world. I don't like what he does with his rage, but with the war story, we begin to get a sense of human nature as self-destructive, a concept Vaughn didn't just make up, of course