I received an ARC of The Star Touched Queen by Roshani Chokshi from MacMillan. This does not affect my views on the book. All material quoted is subject to change.  "The weeks before, I had lost myself in the folktales of Bharata. Stories of elephants who spun clouds, shaking tremors loose from ancient trunks gnarled with the rime of lost cyclones, whirlwinds and thunderstorms. Myths of frank-eyed naga women, twisting serpentine, flashing smiles full of uncut gemstones. Legends of a world beneath, above, beside the one I knew―where trees bore edible gems and no one would think twice about a girl with dark skin and a darker horoscope.”Holy mother of surrealism.Not only are the characters in this story so compelling and original, and the writing so well composed, but the imagery in this book is truly something else. Fans of Deathless by Catherynne M. Valente can appreciate this otherworldly style of creativity, where creatures abound in all aspects of life and nature has a will of its own. The Star Touched Queen is written like a whimsical dream turned nightmare. When I feel as though the details and secondary characters alone are palpable enough to uphold background stories of their own, I know it’s a damn good book. In this case, Chokshi surpasses all my expectations and completely S-L-A-Y-S the YA Lit game. Princess Mayavati lives as an outcast amongst the royal court of Bharata, despite being of the blood of the Raja. Her horoscope proclaims a union of death and destruction, henceforth leaving her to walk in the shadows of the Harem wives and their mistrust of the young girl with the unfortunate fortune. But when the opportunity to grasp freedom from her world of glamoured captivity awakens, Maya is forced to enter a realm only believed to resonate within the stories of ancient folklore. Maya is strong, and a noteworthy inspirational heroine. She is cunning and witty, able to pull apart the deception set before her and unravel riddles in a heartbeat. Her heart is full of passion, but her romance never sways her loyalty or her morals. Although the romance between Maya and her Raja of Akaran is ferociously beautiful, their love story doesn't interfere with what matters the most: self acceptance and self discovery. Ultimately, this is a tale of reincarnation. Oh, and did I mention that this is an adaption of Persephone and Hades told through an Indian setting? Because it is, and it’s freaking amazing. Although, I really should add that this isn’t your usual retelling because it’s merely a loosely fitted version of the original myth. Most of this book is completely original from the author herself, with just some bits and pieces hinting towards P & H. And don’t forget what I mentioned before about the world-building. What I’d do to take a vacation inside Chokshi’s mind…*shivers in delight*I won’t say much about the romance in fear of getting ahead of myself and spoiling you guys, but believe me― it’s maddening in the best of ways. The Star Touched Queen hits the shelves May 3rd! I once mentioned that any book I give a 5 star rating to will also receive a playlist compiled by yours truly. That being said…listen here! Also, don’t forget to preorder your copies now! You’re not going to want to miss this.