1.5Universe, are you throwing terrible books at me or are you throwing terrible books at me?The stars are liable to become a star. Singular.(At the end of the day, the stars did become one).In my last reviews I've been complaining more often than not: you probably think I'm a gigantic grump.You're right.But I think that when I complain, I do it for the right reasons.Take this book, for instance. •It's my (dis)pleasure to introduce now the hugest and most severe case of insta-love I've ever witnessed. Some could object that the following developments, plot-wise, actually justify it.Why so? Because the interactions between the two main characters are freaking ridiculous from the very line where they meet.Why so? Because she freaking marries him four pages later. Four. Blasted. Pages. Later. And it's not as if she hadn't any choice. Let me illustrate the circumstances to you: she's about to die because her father is an asshole, there is an attack to the palace, this hooded guy appears, offers to lead her away from the fight, she throws a garland at his neck (symbolic gesture that means they're married).Go, strong-willed and smart woman seeking a life of freedom and independence. We're all behind you.How does she justify the act?"Something else guided my hands."Of coooourse give me a minute to see if I can find an antipsychotic. Incoming elephant dose for you.And it doesn't end here (if only!). Oh, no. It goes on.He to her, a couple of pages later: "I want to be humbled by you."And on."I could give you whole worlds."And on."You look like edges and thunderstorms. And I would not have you any other way."And. On."I would trade anything for it." It being a strand of her hair.Besides, the whole thing feels fastidiously childish too: they were on the verge of kissing for the first time for four or five times (I didn't really count them, but trust that they were a lot) and each of these times they were interrupted by a) a noise that might or might not result in b) an imminent attack from things. I mean, I watched teen-dramas more mature than this.•If you're wondering why some readers might think this disgustingly gushy and sappy subspecies of romance may be granted some sort of justification, the answer is: because the background story and the core plot-twist of the whole story are evidently copied from Daughter of Smoke and Bone (and I'm marking the title of the book as spoiler because the moment you know what story I'm referring to, you can guess the entire development of The Star-Touched Queen). •Which leads me to the plot. Ugh. You know what, let's pretend I forgot this point.•As if that -"that" including sloppy characterization, lack of originality and a romance that gets on your nerves even before it shows up- were not enough, the book is also boring. Boring, like, I had to skim through some part or my neurons would have collapsed like dominoes. The writing, the so much vaunted writing, can sound beautiful in the first chapters, but little by little it grows stale and devoid of any freshness or liveliness. Who compared it to Laini Taylor's has clearly no idea of what they're talking about.➽ When I started to write this review, I though there was going to be also a paragraph dedicated to the positive aspects of the novel, but now I realize there won't. It was hard labour to read this thing. If today was yesterday, as a friend of mine said, I would have steered clear. No, I would have ran in the opposite direction.EDIT 20/03/2016: So, I read the free sample -chapter 1-5; you can download it for free here. It is beautifully written indeed, though I think the writing betrays a bit of inexperience (the narration is kind of blurry, the events seem to fade one into the other), and just at the end of chapter five we already have a plot-twist that fully convinced me to give the book a chance. I have good expectations.