The threads called, and I answered–it was too late to turn back now..The Star-Touched Queen was a book that called to me. Having grown up on greek mythology and being swept up by the folklore of Koshchei the Deathless, there was something about fantastical, romanticized "death" that always piqued my interest. “That night, I dreamed of locked doors and baying hounds, rooms that were night-dark and a beast-king that smiled and laughed around a mouthful of broken stars to sing one phrase over and over: I know the monster in your bed.”The Star-Touched Queen was no different. I felt as if I was a child again, opening my giant book of mythology and being enthralled by its stories. I wanted a love as thick as time, as inscrutable as if a lathe had carved it from night and as familiar as the marrow in my bones. I wanted the impossible...This story is very much centered around the romance. If that's not your cup of tea, then this may not be for you. I, however, am always a slut for romance so I was more than okay with its set-up. Amar (auto-correct kept trying to change it to "amor" which is a sign right there) was just... the best. Not an asshole. Not unknowingly sexist. 10/10 would Amar again. “My kingdom needs a queen.” he said. “It needs someone with fury in her heart and shadows in her smile. It needs someone restless and clever. It needs you.”The Star-Touched Queen is shrouded in mystery and because of the book's unique storyline, it was impossible to guess what would come next. It was like a wild goose chase for answers and if there is one thing that will always keep me interested in a story, it's my need for answers.I feel like this is a book that is either a hit or miss. You either love it or hate it. The writing can be beautiful and as magical as the story it conveys... or you can be like, what the hell is this saying? I was in the former category and truly felt like I was reading another fairytale. However, if you're not into the book, it can easily be too metaphoric or confusing or nonsensical. While I wouldn't recommend this one to everyone, I certainly think there's an audience for it. Lots of romance, lots of mystery, and lots of magic. I solid read, indeed.