Mayavati (Maya) is cursed at birth with a horoscope that portends of a marriage steeped in death and destruction. At seventeen years of age, she believes her curse prevents her from ever marrying and is content to spend her life as a scholar. But her plans are torn asunder when her father, the Raja, contrives an arranged marriage for political purposes, one he hopes will quell the surrounding rebel kingdoms. Maya must decide whether to accept the burden of responsibility or flee under the cloak of night to obtain freedom. Whatever magic had unearthed meaning in stars, my celestial forecast was shadowed and torn, and the wives never let me forget. It made me hate the stars and curse the night sky. Desperate for autonomy, Maya’s story is one of dreams and longing. Throughout her life, she’s collected what she refers to as “small hopes.” She desires significance in her father’s court, a chance to rule, and to be listened to rather than feared. She further wishes to prove herself in some way, to be more than a nameless woman who is one of many in a man’s harem. Such things feel beyond her grasp; to obtain them would require her to face unusual monsters.This was the court of Bharata, a city like a bone spur – tacked on like an afterthought. Its demons were different: harem wives with jewels in their hair and hate in their hearts, courtiers with mouths full of lies, a father who knew me only as a colored stone around his neck. Those were the monsters I knew. Maya, her world, and her troubling circumstances are introduced with elegant writing that boasts sensory flourishes and lyrical similes that draw reference to Indian culture. Chokshi’s stylistic prose is the hallmark of The Star-Touched Queen and draws readers in from page one, line one. With such alluring descriptions and swooning analogies, the book gives the immediate impression that it’s going to be a stellar read. The archives were cut like honeycombs and golden light clung to them, dousing every tome, painting, treatise and poem the soft gold of ghee freshly skimmed from boiling butter. Outside, the thunder of clashing gongs drifted through the harem walls. Parrots scattered from their naps, launching into the air with a huff and a screech. The familiar shuffle of pointed shoes, golden tassels and nervous voices making their way to the throne room for [my father’s] announcement. Though the book starts strong – with impressive writing and an intriguing premise – it quickly unravels in terms of story. To put it simply, Chokshi’s book reads like the byproduct of unpolished discovery writing. She begins telling one story and, about a quarter of the way through her book, readers are blindsided with an entirely different narrative, one that trades the weight of real life for the perils of the supernatural. Despite being hinted at early in the story, this shift to an alternate realm happens with jarring swiftness. The feeling that the story is unpolished is made more palpable by loose ends and oddities that seemingly exist for the author’s convenience. For example, Maya spends a significant amount of time, early in the book, worrying about her younger sister Gauri. There’s barely time to form a sentimental attachment to Gauri before she’s whisked out of the story and presumed dead. Maya randomly proclaims (near the end of the book) that before going to the Otherworld, she must first “bury [the necklace she and Gauri shared] in the place where its last owner lived” in order to “release the ghosts of [her] past” so that she may then go on to save her friend Amar. This sudden need to return the necklace to her presumably deceased little sister feels like it comes out of nowhere.Another example is Amar keeping the top half of his face cloaked for a considerable length of time after he and Maya first meet. Much intrigue surrounds his decision to keep his face in shadow and readers cannot help but wonder (alongside Maya) if he keeps his face hidden because of a gruesome scar or a deformity. When he finally removes his hood, the moment is anticlimactic, revealing that Amar has a handsome face and features that possess a “lethal kind of elegance.” Maya looks into his eyes and sees “no secrets in [his] gaze,” yet three-quarters of the way through the book, she looks into his eyes again and sees something “both visceral and ephemeral, like heavy light.” She sees “eyes of death” that reveal “every recess of the soul and every locked-away memory of [her] past” such that she’s suddenly able to recall a life she already had. Also in the vein of the seemingly inexplicable, much of the plot moves forward because of Maya having sudden realizations that come out of the blue, making the plot feel hastily executed. Maya makes several decisions throughout the book that have weighty consequences but devotes little time to contemplating her choices. Chokshi opts for quick explanations to give account for Maya’s decision-making, then hastens to recount the ramifications – for good or ill – of Maya’s choices. Because of her choices, Maya embarks on a dangerous adventure and traverses many settings with mythical and surrealist qualities. These creatively unique places are a ‘visual’ delight for the imagination, but they often feel shoved together without reason or for inadequate reasons. The same can be said of the wondrous imagery: a bridge made of clouds, trees with succulent gemstone fruits, and an unearthly elephant who shapes clouds in the sky can all be found in the book, but they are dropped in, briefly interacted with, then whisked away - in some cases, to never be mentioned again. Were it not for its flawed plot and clunky character arcs, this book would be on par with An Ember in the Ashes by Sabaa Tahir or Daughter of Smoke & Bone by Laini Taylor. The Star-Touched Queen is a fount of missed opportunities and is best viewed as a light read that delivers a richly folkloric story through befuddling characters whose behavior feels erratic.