Actual rating: 3.7 stars“It’s bad to be a dragon.”“Says who? Nothing wrong with a little bit of viciousness. Would you rather be a dove or a dragon?”Good question, right? What would your answer be? A Dove or a Dragon? A master of your fate or a marionette? This is the very first thing I liked about this book: it gives you wisdom you want to absorb - a special kind of magic you can reach only in the process of reading the story and recognizing it. Yes, recognizing, because this story is not only about Maya and her trials, everyone can find a part of themselves in it: everyone is star-touched. At the beginning there was my admiration with this book; in the end it became reasons why you should read The Star-Touched Queen.* A story is told as a mix of fairytale and myth. You will definitely find here traces of Beauty and the Beast, Persephone and Hades, Bluebeard. I am sure you will also find other well-known fairytales; this story is a potion of heady ingredients that absorbed the best stories from all over the world. I felt its atmosphere, something from my childhood that made me wish I could be, for just a moment, a little girl who read all those beautiful fairytales. This is how the story feels:The Night Bazaar had ensnared me. I could smell its perfume on my skin—of stories and secrets, flashing teeth and slow smiles.* A magical language. Beautiful is not the word to describe it. It's otherworldly in its beauty.All through the night, he smiled daggers into my heart.Look how sharp that phrase is!And this one is so painful in its beauty:“I know emptiness. I know the taste of blood against my teeth. I know what it is to fill your belly with iron. I know hunger. I know pain. I know memories that won’t stay. I know the ghost of life and the perfume of souls.”* A headstrong and reliable MC. Maya is a kind of heroine you connect with at once. She doubts, she fails, she seeks, she gives, she loves and she forgives. We follow her journey through realms and time, and we see her growth as a character. Not once did I doubt her - even when she was wrong- I knew she was true to herself. “I will not let us be beings of regret. I know my past. What I want is my future.” “Wouldn’t it be easier keep your victim faceless?”I shuddered. “Not a victim.”“What else do you call one hemmed in by fate?”“Human,” I said, bitterness creeping into my voice.“What about guilt, then? Why open yourself to pain?”“Guilt is what makes you accountable.”* Love. I noticed some of my friends did not like the romance in this book, because they saw insta-love in it. It's all about perspective, right? I didn't see insta-love in this book. Love here is an infinite thing that has no beginning or ending, because two souls are intertwined so tightly, you can't tell them apart. I can't say more, because it'll be a spoiler, but if you are afraid of insta-love - don't be, this story has a logical explanation as why the romance is the way it is. You just need to be patient enough to reach the point of that explanation.Beside him, the world was a soft, pulsing and bright thing, alive with hidden angles that we could uncover one by one. It was more than magic. It was life turned relentless and astral. And I reveled in it.The moment he touched me, my universe constricted to the space between our lips. We were a snarl of limbs and bright-burning kisses.* A dark mysterious hero. I know, I know, we've seen it already, we've been there many times, but there's always "but". Amar is dark and mysterious, and, once again, I was not able to resist his charming demeanor. His is silver-tongued and it's hard to understand whether he is a villain or a hero in the story. Seriously, look how good he is with words!“My star-touched queen,” he said softly, as if he was remembering something from long ago. “I would break the world to give you what you want.”“The truth,” said Amar, taking a step closer to me, “is that you look neither lovely nor demure. You look like edges and thunderstorms. And I would not have you any other way.”“I promised you the moon for your throne and stars to wear in your hair," said Amar, gesturing inside. "And I always keep my promises.” What girl could resist that, right?* Wisdon. It's one of my favorite parts about this book. The story is not just a beautiful song spilling its gifts in vain. No, it has moral and wisdom.Father once said the real language of diplomacy was in the space between words. He said silence was key to politics.The worms do not take heed of caste and rank when they feast on our ashes," the Raja said. "Your subjects will not remember you. They will not remember the shade of your eyes, the colors you favored, or the beauty of your wives. They will only remember your impression upon their hearts and whether you filled them with glee or grief. That is your immortality.Books' primary purpose is to teach us something, whether it's useful or not everyone decided for themselves. This book was a great teacher to me, and I will hold its precious lessons closer to my heart.* Sisterly bond. It always makes me happy to read a book where there's not only love between a man and a woman, but also love between siblings; it's another precious gift nature gave us. Maya and her sister have a special bond no amount of time can diminish. There's one quote that made me cry. Read it and you will understand:I hadn’t known until now, but I saw it, felt it. I came here for her. Because it didn’t matter whether I had lived in another realm for years that I thought were mere days. It didn’t matter that I had tasted fairy fruit, fallen in love and broken a heart. Some bonds were impervious to all manner of experience. And the truth was that, no matter what happened, we were sisters.Of course, this story is not flawless, but they do not have an objective nature: just a couple of things that were off personally for me. For example, the last 10% of the book went slightly into different direction than the one I wanted. It's strictly subjective and has everything to do with how I imagined those 10% in my head. As for recommending this book, I believe people who love fairytales or read and liked A Thousand Nights or The Forbidden Wish, have more chances to love this one. But it's in no way a set of rules to liking or disliking the book; I actually would recommend it to everyone: try it and see if its magic will affect you. And I am off to wait for the second book which will be a companion novel, and I believe no less magical than this one.