❝He loved her. And she loved him. And in such bliss does devastation grow.❞Rating: {★ ★ ★}I must admit, I'm a bit conflicted on how I want to rate and review this book. I enjoyed reading The Star-Touched Queen but at the same time, I did have a few issues that stuck out to me and affected my reading experience.The Star-Touched Queen was like The Wrath and the Dawn meets Cruel Beauty meets A Court of Thorns and Roses with Indian mythology added into the mix. A lot was going on and I was really lost 90% of the time I was reading. I think even when the truth was unveiled, I became even more confused as to what was happening. I had hoped that once everything was explained, it all would start to come together but it never really did...Roshani's writing is very vibrant and beautifully detailed. Her sentences are weaved together perfectly to create such melodious prose. However, I did find the writing to be both a strength and a weakness when it came to The Star-Touched Queen. On the plus side, the lush writing provided the readers with such fruitful imagery. Unfortunately, at times I did feel overwhelmed with the amount of details that were given to us. The imagery, of course, was enthralling but in certain parts it became too much and too flowery to the point where it took away from the plot because I often found myself getting lost in the descriptions.Secondly, I felt that the world-building was a bit confusing. Even after finishing the book, I'm still unsure of how the world works... How the threads worked... How the palace worked... I'm not even sure. I'm just completely lost with this book. :( The only thing I understand is that the palace has different rooms? (Obviously) But different as in... There's a different world in every room? Every room is a gateway to another world? Goodness, I honestly don't even know.One of the things I did enjoy was the star-crossed relationship between Maya and Amar. However, I did feel that they were a bit insta-lovey in the beginning. I just think that any relationship that deals with past lives or past "loves", is a bit tricky to handle in order to avoid coming off as insta-love just because of that instant spark that they're supposed to feel due to the whole past love thing. But I decided to just look past the insta-love part and found myself enjoying the chemistry between Maya and Amar.The Star-Touched Queen wasn't really how I expected it to be. It's sad to say that I'm a little disappointed but I have no doubt that Roshani will write many great books in her future. Roshani's writing is very artistic and beautiful, and I wish I could've enjoyed it to its full potential but it didn't work for me. I can understand completely how other readers would enjoy The Star-Touched Queen. It's very creative and diverse. I sure haven't read any books based on Indian mythology and I give Roshani props for trying to pursue this! We need more diversity in YA and I'm glad she decided to contribute to this movement. Although I didn't enjoy this as much as I was hoping to, I have faith that this author will accomplish a lot with her future books. She is a great writer and a great person to talk to. I will read anything that Roshani writes and support her 100%. :)