It’s a good day to get punched.


"This is the tale of Blatant Barm, the Unwashed Bandit. Baddest, meanest, stinkiest bandit."
How do I make a spoiler-free review of this while holding back everything I feel right now? It would be a daunting task for every reader of The Lost Metal, especially if you’d fallen in love with these amazing characters…
"Wait. Who is Trell and who is Autonomy and who is that on the steps?"
The 5-star rating says a lot but it doesn’t say it all. For one thing, though I gave both five stars, The Lost Metal easily replaced The Bands of Mourning as the best entry of Era 2, and possibly the best of the entire Mistborn series. While Hero of the Ages had a more complex and thrilling plot, I had come to love the characters of the new era a lot more. They all shared a perfect combination of habitability, believability and complexity. 
”I’m a bastion of useful information, I am.”
Just to make the review complete, I’ll repeat this line once more, but without much elaboration to keep the review concise: this is world building, character development, magical systems, mystery and adventure at their best, while also nicely complemented by humor and suspense. Once you’ve read The Lost Metal, it would not be surprising to find most other books lacking in at least one of these elements.Kim: 
"What do you add to the team?"
Wayne: 
”Comic relief. Maybe a little whimsy. Improvisation. Vision.”
Kim: 
”You have a broad imagination, then?”
Wayne: 
”There are broads in my imagination almost all the time.”
It may have not been that clear going from one entry to the next, but looking all the way back at The Final Empire, Sanderson’s character development has come a long way. True, it was amazing even at that first Mistborn book, but he kept outdoing himself with each book, setting new standards for what is accepted as perfect. 
”It’s hard to know what you want. We never have all the information. We merely have to do what we can with what we have.”
Making an ending realistic always comes with the conundrum of dishing out a balanced amount of happiness and disappointment. Though I wanted to say I hated the way few things ended, it would not have left such a profound impact had it been handled differently. I’ll stop at saying that the author gave us a beautiful ending. 
”It was hard to tell with Wayne. At times he seemed deeply insightful. He inevitably ruined that.”
As I mentioned before, this was a tough review to write… It was a shocking ending, which took me quite a bit of time to recover and get my thoughts in order. So, I’m keeping this review as a work in progress, and hoping to give it a much better revision during a future re-read.
"You are whatever you want to be, Wayne. You’re the wind. You’re the stars. You are all endless things."
And so ends what had been a remarkable Era 2… It is obviously heartbreaking, having to say goodbye to all these wonderful characters, but the prospect of anticipating an even better era 3 makes up for it, at least a little. 

Farewell, my friend. You incredible rusting man. Thank you.


With that, he stretched into another palace, into another time. He stretched into the wind. And also into the stars. And all endless things.