That was rusting incredible! It's been 14 years since Hero of Ages that Sanderson had given us a series conclusion and he has once again stuck the landing for another Mistborn conclusion. And I think he did even better this time. The Lost Metal was pretty much the perfect finale. The last few books provided the much needed foundation of the worldbuilding especially around the progression of the magic system, and developing characters that we know and loved so much, and the basis of the overarching story for Mistborn Era 2. Armed with this strong foundation, this finale was a high-stakes, fast-paced story that pointed our main characters towards the primary threat almost right from the get-go. I was a bit surprised and delighted that we also got some answers pretty early in the book, and typical of Sanderson, continued to get more which were craftily scattered throughout the narrative keeping me absolutely riveted. However, despite the pace and the revelations, and the amount of incredible action scenes, we still got plenty of character moments which continue to develop our characters even more. The ending was a beautifully bittersweet one, and one which will keep me thinking about it for days and weeks to come. Then we have the Cosmere stuff. Holy moly, when Sanderson said this will be the most Cosmere-aware book to date, he wasn't kidding and I was loving it to bits. As he said in his release party, the gloves are finally off. There's no holding him back now and it's only going to get even more exciting and fun from now on. Can someone without knowledge of the Cosmere still enjoy this book? I believe so as the characters are amazing in their own right, and the action scenes are classic Sanderson - freaking cool and cinematic. But you'll miss out on the extra layer of excitement and the fun of discovery and connecting the bigger picture. The Lost Metal is not a big book by Sanderson's standards. That he managed to pack so much in this and yet keep it so well-balanced clearly shows the vast improvement in his writing skills since the first Mistborn trilogy and Hero of Ages. The best example of this I think was in the Prologue. A perfectly executed scene and PoV chapter that will hit you right in the gut with just one sentence right at the very end, it made me understand that one single character (okay, it's Wayne) even better without having to spend an inordinate amount of time in his head. It also magnifies the moments you spend in Wayne's head in his following PoV chapters throughout the book. As for the rest of the characters, rest assured that they were in no way sidelined and everyone was given their moment to shine and grow into their role in the overall story. The more I think about it, the more I think that this could be Sanderson's finest character work to date. I might rewrite this review as I'm just regurgitating my (spoiler-free) thoughts. But safe to say, there's a reason Sanderson is my favourite author of all-time, and he's staying at that top spot.