Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.
Oh no Brandon...what are you doing?!?!This is a very frustrating review to have to write. I'm a BIG Brandon Sanderson fan - with many of my all time favorite books being written by him, I consider him one of my top 5 favorite authors of all time. And while I haven't been in love with the Mistborn: Era 2 books thus far, they have all been passable. This one however, for me, was absolutely atrocious from beginning to end.First, I absolutely loathe Wayne - who is a main character that is featured on a large number of pages here. His entire character is written to be funny, and with humor being as subjective as it is, for me personally his humor fails to hit the mark. The "funny" Sanderson characters tend to follow a similar arc where they are more silly than outright funny, but Wayne is almost like a caricature of that with how over the top he is. A younger me would have been a bigger fan of his, but the type of humor I enjoy has changed over time and sadly that no longer appeals to me. I'm frustrated with the overall structure of this book. Most Sanderson books follow a similar arc where they are decently written from a writing style perspective, but end up being absolutely wonderful due to the wonderful worldbuilding, magic systems, and most importantly - his expert usage of twists. There was no twist in this book, and the book massively suffered as a result. What we were left with was a rather mediocre thriller book, and if that is what I wanted to read I would just go pick up a Tom Clancy book and read something great. But Sanderson isn't an amazing thriller writer, and it really showed here.The main villain has inexplicably switched to a new person after 3 books to a brand new villain in the 4th book. It feels shoehorned in, and has a severe lack of character development and felt very rushed. That is never a good strategy to use as an author, and weakens the overall plot of the entire series by making it feel extremely disjointed.The beginning of this book contained a huge number of info dumps, something that is not normally a Sanderson style, and ends up feeling very strange and out of place. I could understand it a bit more in the first book of a series, but we are in the 4th and final book and the time for that has come and gone a long time ago.My main problem with this book however is the extreme usage of Cosmere references. And I am left feeling like the Cosmere as a whole is suffering as a result. Every other page feels "cosmere" this, and "investiture" that, and what went from a very mellow sprinkling in previous Cosmere books turned into the central feature of this book. I get why many people, if not most, will love this aspect of the book - but what made me love the Stormlight books was the subtle nature to the Cosmere references. It felt like a secret you were being let in on, and that most readers just didn't catch onto - it has some mystery to it and left you wanting more. Now it's over the top and feels like a very poor direction for the Cosmere books to go. I'm not even sure previous book said the word Cosmere more than once or twice, but it's used many dozens of times and feels out of place.There is a huge amount of deus ex amchina now implemented due to the extreme Cosmere tie ins, and it cheapens the thrill here when characters can come in and solve problems using powers that are only relevant in other books on other words. It ends up not really feeling like a mistborn book.If you read "Mistborn: Secret History" you will know that a certain character is heavily featured here, and I absolutely hated that reveal. It cheapened the fate of this character and felt like it was being way too cute. That character now is featured, and I hate the direction that this took. Not only that, but the reveal of this character in Mistborn: Era 2 was a huge cliffhanger in the 3rd book, with so many questions left lingering that just simply do not get solved here.Ultimately, with Mistborn Era 1 we had an absolutely amazing ending that tied up the series in a beautiful way - and with Era 2 it ended up feeling like it didn't need to be written. This entire Era could have just been a wiki blurb, or at most a novella, and it would have served its purpose. The ending of Era 2 leaves with pretty much zero plot development and ends up just being a prelude for Era 3.If you are one of the MANY people who absolutely loved this book, I'm jealous of you and am happy you found enjoyment. But for me personally, I'm left with huge doubts over the future of Mistborn, and major concerns of the future of all Cosmere books.