Ah yes, my first 1 star rating of 2018. I guess it’s that time of year again where I become 1% human and the other 99% is just crippling disappointment.I can’t overstate just how much I don’t care about this book. I’m looking at everyone’s five stars reviews and wondering if maybe we all truly live in different realities and the internet is the only commonly shared space which doesn’t change across universes, because how is it possible to have such astronomically different attitudes towards a thing unless we’ve read different versions of it?? I really tried to find something really nice and from my heart to say about this book but I just ended up sounding like someone who has only vaguely heard of human emotions or seen them play out once or twice!! Don't get me wrong, I'm happy for y'all but when I die and my life flashes before my eyes, 30% of it is just gonna be me staring at walls and wondering what the hell had I missed. No seriously, you know those renaissance paintings where people always look completely bored and disinterested through whatever significant scene they’re depicted in? actual footage of me reading this book.so what is this book about?The story is set in a world in which time is the ultimate currency and people consume blood-irons – alchemical coins that extend people’s lives by anything from hours to years. In this world, members of the rich aristocracy tax the people to the hilt, extending their own lives by centuries and becoming essentially immortal, while the rest are left to beg, borrow or steal enough hours to make it through the day. A premise that seems magical, but the reality is quite depressing. I’ll never forgive this book for pretty much taking the concept from the In Time movie and then not even following through with the revolution. Justin Timberlake and Amanda Seyfried did not lead y'all to victory for you to turn away from battle. But anyway, moving on. At the top of the food chain, there's the Gerling family whom the heroine has vowed revenge against. Ten years before, she and her father were servants at Everless, the Gerlin’s estate, until they were impelled to escape in the dead of the night from the Gerling prince. So when Jule finds out that her father is dying, she risks everything to return to Everless in order to buy him more time.An incredibly dangerous quest that's promptly forgotten in favor of ogling the hot mediocre white dude the heroine has last seen when she was 7 years old and for whom she still harbors feelings that she actually thinks are reciprocated, which was largely imaginary.I've already repressed memories from two days ago, but you want me to believe that she still feels a child's crush from ten years before? The second-hand embarrassment I felt then was literally the most powerful and intense emotion that I've ever experienced. Like, you might as well have taken my suspension of disbelief and shoot a damn cannon through it. She was presented with several opportunities to save her father, or at least extend his lifespan by a few days until she figures it out the how. For instance, she could have snuck out; heck, her father literally came looking for her and instead of being like, 'well first things first, here are some of those blood-irons I carry around in an actual purse to prolong your life by a day at least', she only half listens as her father sputters a bunch of nonsensical riddles about the dangers that are looming over her head instead of, you know, outright telling her what they are. I mean, why be direct and frank when you can communicate badly for dramatic effect??? Look, miscommunication as a plot device brings me ungodly amount of rage. No for real, I touch myself whenever I think about that scene. More specifically, I rub my temples because I get a headache from how awful it was. When the whole plotline could have been avoided if the characters just talked to each other, you know you have a problem. Honestly, I got secondhand exhaustion from the unnecessary drama in general. The plot twists were meh and didn't have any emotional impact beyond annoyance. I wish they could have at least given me some of that excess energy to do my college assignments and exercise and cook and just live in general. Moreover, there's also the matter that I still have no idea what the MCs look like. In fact, the only other character whose skin color was repeatedly mentioned was Bea, who's the only woman of color. And I'm going to be blunt here: it felt a lot like tokenism. Bad writing and little regard for her as an individual has led her to be a cardboard cut-out character with little purpose. Her potential was stamped on and her page-time minimized, and even worse, she was relegated to the pretty maiden whom the rich guy had slept with, which quite frankly pissed me off a lot.Look, if you're going to include POC in your narrative, don't push them to the sidelines, with little individual worth and even fewer lines and make their storyline unimportant and always in relation to their white counterparts. You just can't claim diversity by sprinkling in a few non-white extras that are only shown briefly. It's lacking, to be honest.Anyway, I'm currently feeling my body wracked with 3 million preemptive headaches just remembering how mediocre this book was. I have so many regrets and not calling it a DNF is probably all of them.WORDPRESS | TWITTER | INSTAGRAM