3 1/2 stars. Okay. I fully admit that this is not the Most high quality thing I’ve ever read. But god, if it wasn’t entertaining. This is like... a better Red Queen. And honestly a whole lot wilder. This is an odd book because it has some tropes but isn't completely those tropes - Everless sets up a few tropes and then proceeds to play with them, instead of falling into them so much that it feels predictable. I had several guesses as to plot twists at the beginning, but as the book continued, I realized this book was... not that easy to pin down. I don't want to spoil anything. Obviously. But so much of this was fantastically subversive a couple of nice trope subversions surrounding the romance which as we all know if my aesthetic!! But guys, this book truly offers some new things. I guessed parts of the ending but the author really Went For It to a point I wasn't expecting. It was overall 👌👌 And another strength - I really like Jules!! I’m not a personal fan of first person pov, as I feel it can lead to underdeveloped characters, but Holland really did it with Jules' narrative voice. Towards the beginning, I felt she was a bit generic, but she seriously - and surprisingly - grew on me. Especially as the book progresses, she develops this sense of Mental Strength that I am very very into. if the ending were changed just a teeny tiny bit, it could’ve been my favorite character arc ending of the year. But oh well, it still got Almost There, and I feel as if this set up for more amazing from her next book.I do think that Everless falls victim to a few debut novel issues. There’s the lack of character description for any character - I know I have a tendency to skim descriptions, but I don’t know what these people look like. And though on the whole this skimmed and subverted plenty of my expectations, I did think there were cliche moments with regards to the romance. Are those subverted later? Mostly. Was it a bit too little too late for a couple of cheesy things? Yes. And guys, the missed potential. I've already mentioned the end of this book coming so close to brilliance and then skimming just over, but I think a few other areas could've been expanded on too. I loved that despite the love-triangle element, Jules’ “competition” is a sympathetic character in her own right and is never shamed by Jules. Girl hate just died a miserable death. But I honestly would've loved more focus on Ina's character and relationship with Jules. Please deliver this in book two. I want book two to be entirely about these girls and their friendship. And while I utterly loved the sense of tragedy to this world and this concept, I felt as if the author could've gone further with it. Even more developed side characters could've added to the true pain of this world, the brutality of it, and made this book one of my favorites of the year. But honestly, though I think the potential could've been more realized, I had so much fun reading this and wish I could read the sequel immediately. January next year !! I hope I'm not the only one reading it when we get there.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube