Reviews can be found at: www.booknerdtan.wordpress.com***Thoughts now that I’ve simmered down a little and my brain works***Holy.This book originally caught my eye a while ago with its’ interesting premise (and beautiful cover, let’s face it) and as soon as I started reading it, it drew me in SO rapidly I inhaled it in less than 24 hours.Now, fantasy for me has never been one of my favourite genres. I usually find it a bit daunting learning new worlds, words and the mythology that comes with it and therefore I read at a slower pace than I normally would any other genre and that puts me off wanting to read fantasy most of the time. This year I decided to make a resolution to introduce a bit more fantasy into my reading challenge because I feel like I’m missing out on some seriously amazing stories. And if Everless is anything to go by then, yeah, I seriously am.This story was captivating, intriguing, full to the brim with mystery and absolutely heart-wrenching throughout. I, for the life of me, couldn’t tear myself away from it. The author introduces the world to us in a coherent and understandable way and maybe that’s why I got so sucked in; the imagery was absolutely lush. All the way through as more clues were coming to light, I kept convincing myself that I had a grasp on what was the answers were, but I was fooled – I didn’t know anything. Through a lot of fantasy, I get half way (maybe less) before giving up as I often find the story to be way too slow with lots of beautiful sentences but not much content, however there wasn’t a moment in this story that I was left bored or distracted.Despite being YA, all the characters were richly developed and mature–a very refreshing experience compared to some YA I’ve recently read. I’m even gushing about the potential love story the next book could have. The relationships Jules had with some of the characters, her father and Hinton mainly, absolutely melted my heart and the scene with the both of them…no...my heart.This deserves all the hype it’s receiving. The story left on such a cliff-hanger and there are so many questions left unanswered that I literally cannot wait for the next instalment in this series. Hurry UPPPPP! So happy I’ve come across this series.