Mendanbar, king of the Enchanted Forest, Cimorene, princess of dragon Kazul, a sword that leaks magic, and a faulty magic carpet must travel to find the missing King of the Dragons. They must find her before her dragon-nappers do something devastating to Cimorene's friend. PlotSearching for Dragons should actually be called “Searching for Dragon” (singular) because it’s Kazul, King of the Dragons, who is missing. Mendanbar, the king of the Enchanted Forest that was never mentioned in the first book, teams up with Cimorene, our “unconventional” princess to find and rescue Kazul. All in all, it’s a pretty dull plot.Mendanbar and Cimorene spend the majority of the book bumbling around and meeting seemingly irrelevant characters who gain a purpose near the end. Mendanbar has a deus-ex-machina sword that literally magics him and Cimorene out of any problem they stumble across, and this leads to a story that lacks any tension, which further extends to a climax that fizzles out. There are so many unsubtle attempts at foreshadowing it makes my teeth hurt. Searching for Dragons is so much more predictable than Dealing with Dragons was, and that’s saying something. What little plot is there is extremely boring and lacks any excitement. I haven’t read the other two books in the series yet, but I’ll bet money that this book could easily be skipped.WritingDespite what should have been a more action-y book, Wrede writes the exact same way she did in the first one. There’s no tension, excitement, sense of adventure, or anything like that. This books is also a lot less funny than the first one, which probably has to deal with the lack of Kazul for the majority of the book. She was the only funny thing in Dealing with Dragons. It seems like Wrede was trying to use repetition as humor this time around, but it was only annoying. Especially the “joke” where Mendanbar would translate Telemain’s technical talk into layman’s terms. That “joke” got real old, real fast. There are more “jokes” similar to that, and they are all just as unfunny. CharactersMendanbar is the main character this time around. He’s dull, boring, and more than a bit unlikeable. He spends the first half of the book talking down on princesses for being silly and stupid, then after meeting Cimorene, he bashes them some more to elevate her. Newsflash to authors, tearing down one group of women to uplift another does not make that second group seem better in the slightest. There was nothing interesting about Mendanbar, and this especially goes for his magic. He has no struggles and breezes through everything because he’s king of the Enchanted Forest. And, oh, Cimorene. What has this book done to you? Even though I didn’t think Cimorene was anything special in Dealing with Dragons, she was still an alright character. Searching for Dragons took her character and sucked all of the good parts of her out. That previously smart princess? Well, now she’s a moron that constantly has to be told by Mendanbar what something means. That level-headed princess? Is now irrational enough to not consider the consequences of just waltzing into the Enchanted Forest. Cimorene’s character was nerfed to make Mendanbar seem like a better character.Everybody else are background tools used purely to further the plot. They are barely characters on their own.Things I LikedThe only thing I liked was when there was an actual explanation on the differences between magicians and wizards. There are a lot of books that have different groups of magic-users, and yet never bother to explain what makes one group differ from another. Things I Didn't LikeI disliked a whole lot of things, as evidenced by my one-star rating. Where to start?First off, the “romance” between Mendanbar and Cimorene. When Mendanbar first mentioned not wanting to marry some vapid princess, I knew he and Cimorene would get together because she was “different”. If Mendanbar wasn’t such an unobservant jerk, he’d realize a lot of princesses put on an airheaded act because that’s what society dictates. Besides that, there is no actual romance between these two. They are acquaintances at best for the majority of the book. There is no romantic tension, or any tension at all. I can’t even see these two as being friends! And all of a sudden, in the last two chapters, the book passively tells us Mendanbar wants to put his arm around Cimorene while walking. Romance of the century, y’all. In the last chapter Mendanbar says he loves her and Cimorene reciprocates his feelings based off of two days of knowing each other and no real chemistry, I suppose. Very bad romance.The second thing I disliked was how the book, and Mendanbar, felt the constant need to talk down about other princesses in comparison to Cimorene. Dealing with Dragons did this as well, but it wasn’t as bad as in this book. When I say the first third of the book did this, I mean it was constant. Saying other princesses are stupid and silly and scatterbrained does not make Cimorene look better in comparison. It makes Mendanbar, and anybody who agrees with him, look like nitwits and misogynists. Girl-on-girl hate is bad enough, but the same attitude coming from a man is worse. The third thing I disliked was the convenient-only-when-the-plot-calls-for-it stuff. In the first book, it was Cimorene’s fight with that bird with the teleportation feathers and Alianora’s lemony soap water. In this book, it’s Mendanbar’s magic sword. Mendanbar never really touches the sword until it’s time to save the day. That’s literally the only other time the sword is used; when the characters are in some sort of peril or difficult situation. As mentioned earlier, this absolutely kills any tension that might have been there in the first place. I have more things I disliked, but one thing that really bothered me was what could have been. Cimorene is apparently a sorceress and the reader is denied being allowed to see her progress as she discovered her magic. I would have much rather preferred Cimorene’s magical awakening to this drag of a book.DiversityEverybody is white. The female characters are either dumbed down to make the men seem smarter, or irrelevant. There’s an anti-Rromani slur and yet no Rromani characters, at the very least. Terrible diversity.OverallI honestly hated getting through Searching for Dragons. It started off boring, the climax was boring, and the ending was boring. Nothing exciting happened at all. There was not real adventure because the characters bumbled through their search mission and happened upon their answers, there was no action because everything was either solved by a convenient stranger Cimorene and Mendanbar just met or Mendanbar’s deus-ex-machina sword, there was absolutely no romance (and you cannot convince me otherwise), and all together there was no interesting story. I dread having to read the two remaining books in this series.Here is a link to my notes.