"They always do the same thing - come in, ask for a meal, hide, and then run off with a harp or a bag full of money the minute I fall asleep," Dobbilan said. "And they're always named Jack. Always. We've lived in this castle for twenty years, and every three months, regular as clockwork, one of those boys shows up, and there's never been a Tom, Dick, or Harry among 'em. Just Jacks. The English have no imagination."This book was amazing and absolutely hilarious, I can't even tell you. Unlike the first book, where we followed the badass independent princess Cimorene that decided to live with dragons instead of getting married, here we follow king Mendanbar who has his own opinions on those silly princesses. I bet you can guess where all of this is going. You got it they get married at the end of the book. At first I wasn't really happy about this, I thought this series was about independence, promoting the idea that HEA doesn't mean a wedding to a king. Well, yeah... but also, I feel like the ending of the book still goes against that expectation first, we are just in the middle of their adventures, so the series doesn't end in a wedding, second, Cimorene doesn't get rescued, marrying Mendanbar isn't some sort of payment for some great deed, they just love each other... It's very fairytale-like in it being quite swift with little-to-none buildup, but... honestly I got over it.So that was to the feminist part and now to the hilarious part!
He noticed, without surprise, that the two cats had come along, even though he had not specifically included them in the transportation spell. Cats were like that.
What this series does brilliantly is that it includes digs at other/traditional fairy-tales and re-owns them. I LOVE love love that feature SO much. Honestly, it's probably my favourite thing about this series. The best part of this book - in my opinion - is when the MCs meet with a descendant of Rumpelstiltskin who really likes spinning gold from straw, but who can't do it for himself and always has to make a bargain for it. Because of this his house is full of kids, because in spite of his honest effort to help the poor girls guess his name they just can't manage it. (He even legally changes his name to make it easier on them!) Secretly though, he loves it and is such a cute dad to all of them - though he doesn't have enough many to properly care for them all, so has to spin more gold and the cycle repeats.And then there is the club of evil stepmothers, uncles & such, which... once again, hilarious. I really enjoyed this book SO much. The plot is very simple and for some could be underwhelming, but I feel like that's not the point... I'm bumping the rating to 5⭐ because this book deserves it!
Prince Rupert nodded gloomily. "I’m afraid you’re right. And frankly, I’m not at all sure that abandoning him is the right notion. I just can’t think of anything else wicked to do on short notice.""But you promised you’d abandon me in the Enchanted Forest," Jorillam protested. "And I want to be abandoned and have all sorts of adventures and come home covered in glory."