Searching For Dragons, really?I think in the whole book there was only one dragon. 
MY FEELINGS 
I was burning with excitement after reading its first book. BUT ugh! This book extinguished every flare of excitement and left me damped. As you know wet things don't catch fire rapidly. Hehehe... I think that was the worst comparison ever made. I don't know how it came in my mind.Back to the point, this was not the book I was expecting from the author of Dealing With Dragons. beginning was almost similar to first book's beginning with different circumstances..
Be alert! Don't open any spoiler if you are looking forward to read this book or if you don't want any revelation. Otherwise, you can read this review.

MAJOR CHARACTERS
MendanberBio--- He is the king of Enchanted Forest.My feelings--- He was very appealing for me. I love this character BUTI felt this character was very similar to Cimorene. Like: Cimorene don't like to do princess' things --- Mendanber also has no interest in formal meeting, parties etc.CimoreneBio Chief Cook and Librarian to Kazul (King of Dragons). My feelings I adore this characterTelemainBioHe is a magician. He loves to study different methods or types of magic.My FeelingsHe was a good character. I liked him but he was over curious I think.
OVERVIEW
One day, Mendanber go for a walk in Enchanted Forest and he runs across a part of Forest which has become dead. There is no magic in its air(as Enchanted Forest is full of magic which float through its air). He finds some dragon's scales in that part. He consults this problem with Morwen (a witch who lives in the Forest) who suggests him to visit Kazul because she can tell him whose dragon those scales are. When he gets to the Kazul's cave he comes to know that Kazul is missing. So Cimorene and Mendaber find her.THINGS I LIKED Indeed, this book didn't satisfy me but there were some things I liked:Enchanted ForestI liked this very much. We came to know very much about this forest in this book Like:  Every place in this Forest changes its location and There is magic in its atmosphere.MendanberI liked how he casted spells in the Forest. I also liked his magical sword except for one thing (see next section).Writing Style & Dialogues = Awesome! Just as in its first book.WizardsI liked them as villains except for one thing (see next section).
THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE
To be honest, I didn't like how they saved Kazul.Mendanber's Magical SwordThis book was keep telling us that his sword is leaking magic so that any magical creature can trace them and can cause harm BUT! There was no such thing happened. They completed their journey without any serious problems.Wizards They are written as very clever BUT they still hadn't found a way to get rid of soapy water which melts them every time. OR book didn't tell us they were even trying to solve this or not. Every time they appeared, they were melted by Cimorene or her friends.According to facts I mentioned above I would give:* 3.2 Dull Stars *I think its first book was far better than this. This book hadn't something which could grip me except for MAGIC! I loved it. That's why I gave this slightly above 3 stars. Excluding magic my rating is 2.5 stars because this book wasn't that bad to give 2 stars.I really hope its 3rd book will be better than this. It should be! Please point out my mistakes and my misunderstandings about this book. I would be happy to see that!Thanks for your attention!