See more reviews at my blog.This book is pure, whimsical fun. I admit, I was not in the right frame of mind to enjoy this the first time I picked it up. It’s got a very lighthearted approach to worldbuilding, and I it wasn’t until my second attempt that I actually appreciated that. But once I was in the mood for a carefree adventure, this was just the perfect fix for it.Etiquette & Espionage had a very early-Harry-Potter feel to it, and I know it’s irritating to hear everything called the next Harry Potter, but let me explain. Remember the first couple books, where the entire wizarding world ran on puns and whatever concept happened to be the most magic-y and zaney? Remember when Hogwarts wasn’t supposed to be a school that many any lick of sense, but was instead just built on pure whimsy? But it was okay, because the books and fans fully embraced that fact and hadn’t yet started writing essays on why it made sense, no really, you just have to assume a bunch of convoluted stuff? That sort of atmosphere is the heart and soul of Etiquette & Espionage. True, it’s steampunk instead of magic and spy stuff instead of wizard stuff. But it’s got the same kind of wide-eyed charm that lets you rush along and not care about the practicality of a whole school for evil geniuses. This book never quite asked me to take this stuff seriously, so I was able to roll along with it and just enjoy every joke.The setting really is the high point in the book. While I liked the plot and the characters, both were…let’s say on the high end of average. Good, thoroughly without fault, but perhaps nothing to write home about. They were a collection of one-note personalities, but much like the whole idea of flying-spy-school, it was done with such flair that I found I didn’t care. I liked their one notes, and I enjoyed reading about them, and there was enough variety in the cast to keep me entertained regardless.But most of all I think I enjoyed the sense of careless adventure in this book. Things tend to happen simply because Sophronia wants to be outlandish, and you know what? Yeah! Bring it on! She’s a 14 year-old outlandish girl who likes adventure; having her do stuff for the sake of enjoying it is perfectly in line with her character, and I, for one, am more than happy to get some action-sans-angst.It’s definitely a book that you have to be in the right mood for. It won’t satisfy any itch for drama or romance or deep brooding. But it doesn’t try to. I feel like every note this book intended to hit, it succeeded at, which is why it gets five stars. Because it may not be for everyone, but it’s perfect at being itself.