“He...boasted an unassuming mustache, which was perched atop his upper lip cautiously, as though it were slightly embarrassed to be there and would like to slide away and become a sideburn or something more fashionable.”After reading that amusing quote, I just had to read this book and I didn't regret it one bit. Fourteen-year-old Sophronia Temminnick is intelligent, curious, spirited and something of a tomboy. After getting into one too many trouble, Mrs. Temminnick decides its time to send Sophronia to Mademoiselle Geraldine's Finishing Academy for Young Ladies of Quality where she'll learn better Etiquettes and blossom into a proper young lady they can be proud of.  “It'll all end in tears and oil.”But it turns out, Mademoiselle Geraldine's school teaches young ladies the fine art of espionage with style, grace and deportment. The young ladies will learn how to create diversions, spy and gather intelligence, and even learn how to kill if needed, with the politest of smiles, endearing giggle and perfect curtsey. “If there is gossip to be garnered, garner it. If there are new dress styles to be imitated, imitate them. If there are hearts to be broken, break them.That's my girls.”Mademoiselle Geraldine's Finishing Academy for Young Ladies of Quality is the perfect place for Sophronia to hone her skills for creating unintended mischief. This school turns out to be a great place not only to learn etiquette and espionage, but a place of self discovery and emotional development. It is also a place to learn what makes the people around her tick, which in turn leads Sophronia to learn more about her own inner workings and a bit of wisdom. “How have I never noticed she only required praise to find me acceptable? wondered Sophronia, not quite realizing that this, too, was a mark of her new education. Many was the lady whose belief in another's sound judgment was based solely upon that other judging her favorably.” Mademoiselle Geraldine's is also an excellent place to make friends and enemies, it is a place that has its own danger, politics and factions under all the politeness and that's what drives the plot. I especially liked Sophronia interactions with Soap, the teachers and the double meaning in their dialogue.“Quietly Sophronia added, "And the soot on my dress, sir?""I didn't see anything." Professor Braithwope smiled down at her, showing a small hint of fang.Sophronia grinned back. "I'm glad we understand each other, sir."The vampire looked out into the night. "This is the right finishing school for you, isn't it, whot?""Yes sir, I think it might very well be.""A piece of advice, Miss Temminnick?""Sir?""It is a great skill to have friends in low places. They, too, have things to teach you.""Now, sir, I thought you didn't see any soot.”Sophronia and the rest of the characters have a lot to learn about themselves and Mademoiselle Geraldine's Finishing Academy for Young Ladies of Quality has a lot more to teach them about the art of espionage. “She had to give her teachers credit: they were right to insist all pupils carry scissors, handkerchiefs, perfume and hair ribbons at all times. At some point she'd learn why they also required a red lace doily and a lemon.” I loved listening to this amazing, light-hearted fun read. This is the start of a great Ya Steampunk series with intelligent quirky plot, brilliant characters with devious minds and enough spirit to get in and out of all sorts of trouble. Such a lovely fun book coupled with an amazing narrator made for a delightful listening time for me. I can't wait to see what happens next in Sophronia's world.