Let me tell you a funny story.After this disaster and this dumpster fire, I was ready to distance myself from Cassandra Clare once and for all. But at least five people kept telling me to read Chain of Gold, that The Last Hours was better than TMI and TID, that even though I hated everything I’ve read by CC, I would love CoG. I highly doubted it.But I ended up reading this anyway, because it was free and available and what’s the worst that could happen? I had resigned myself to the loss of a few more brain cells from my dwindling supply. What happened?How dare I enjoy a Cassandra Clare book?Chain of Gold is essentially a soap opera. It’s filled with romantic drama, hilarious cliffhangers, cheesy dialogue. I love it so much. But this book did something that shocked me and made me question my addled logic. I enjoyed the love triangles. All of them. How could I? Spoilers for the romance in this next paragraph only. James likes Grace, Cordelia likes James, Matthew likes Cordelia and Lucie, Lucie likes no one, Grace is engaged to Charles, James is engaged to Cordelia. As if that weren’t confusing enough, Anna likes Ariadne, who was previously engaged to Charles. Alastair likes Charles and Thomas, and Charles is definitely not available. Is this book okay? No.Do I care? No. It’s so dramatic and juicy and angsty and my heart is bursting. What cements this book’s place in my soap-worthy shelf is the prioritization of drama over plot. I could honestly care less, because plot has always been a secondary thing for me, but I can see how some people wouldn’t enjoy this due to its lack of a comprehensive storyline. Chain of Gold is about Cordelia Carstairs, whose family has fled to London in the wake of a scandal related to her father. She’s a bold, down-to-earth and logical main character who knows what’s good for her. She confronts those who are unpleasant to her, she always thinks a step ahead. Well, almost always, but we’re not going to talk about that. I actually didn’t like her at first because I thought she was going to turn out to be Tessa Gray 2.0, but I was pleasantly surprised when she gained her own personality. Her Persian heritage was woven in very organically. Congratulations to Clare for finally adding some diversity to her books. And she did a very good job, actually. It was all quite natural and an integral part of the characters themselves, rather than, uh… what happened with Jem Carstairs in Clockwork Angel. We don’t talk about that.The other main character is James Herondale, who is the son of Tessa and Will from TID. He was my least favorite character. He’s your typical leader-with-a-troubled-past, and I wasn’t too interested in him. I was more interested in Cordelia/James as a ship (even though I shipped Matthew and Cordelia more), because they had an intriguing dynamic. 
Reading together. Never had Cordelia heard of anything so romantic.
I do think that the next generation of Herondales is more mild than the TID generation, which I absolutely love. That was one of my biggest complaints about TID. Will was just so brash and loud and I hated him. But James is calm and soft and sweet and overall much better than Will ever was. (Sorry, Will stans.)Lucie Herondale, James’s sister, was an incredible character. I loved her. She’s a dryly sarcastic writer, and her narrative was so refreshing and subtly funny. Her relationship with Jesse Blackthorn wasn’t the best, mostly because Jesse had a ghost of a personality (ehehehe puns), so I definitely shipped her with Matthew. At least, I did in the beginning, but that changed at the end, and now I don’t ship her with anyone. She’s so bright on her own. 
Those who mock fiction do so because they fear the truth.
Matthew Fairchild… Oh, Matthew. What can I say? He’s amazing. He struggles with his alcohol addiction, but inside he’s a caring person who loves deeply and is just trying his best. He is my cinnamon roll. Alastair Carstairs is such a morally grey and intriguing character. He was a bully when he was younger, and he’s still dealing with the repercussions of his actions. Not to mention that he feels like an outcast in society. He’s struggling to protect Cordelia while battling his own inner demons. I need more of these characters in my life. I read this entire book in a British accent, it’s that classy and sophisticated and English. Cassandra Clare has a way of bringing the setting to life in Chain of Gold, and while it may be a little cliche, it’s just so, so good. I was not expecting to love this book. In fact, I was prepared to rate it one star and write a rant review and move on. But fate had chosen a different path for me.Why isn’t a copy of Chain of Iron in my hands right now. This is sacrilege. 4.5 stars, my favorite guilty pleasure book everI’m not ready to move on from this book, so here’s some amazing fanart. Seriously, this series has perfect art. Also, a Chain of Gold playlist! Because… why not?James - Line Without a Hook (Ricky Montgomery)Cordelia - Chinese Satellite (Phoebe Bridgers)Matthew - Sweater Weather (The Neighbourhood)Lucie - Kyoto (Phoebe Bridgers)Anna - we fell in love in october (girl in red)Alastair - Black (Pearl Jam)
If Will was singing, that meant he was in a sociable mood and would seize them the moment he saw them and begin reminiscing about Wales and ducks.

”Oh, perfectly,” said Christopher. “I told her all about culturing bacteria, and she was so fascinated that she never spoke a word!”
Chain of Iron reviewChain of Thorns review