2.5 stars✨  It was okay-ish but not something that was mind blowing. It had its moments but as a whole it bored me. It does have the Witcher vibes to it tho. Will keep the review simple.  What I liked  ✅  World building-  It's rich, immersive and so dark. ✅  The writing-  I gotta give it to the author, the way he wrote it is commendable. Although the book did not work for me, I appreciated the amount of thought and work that was put in. Some of the quotes are just chef's kiss. ✅  Gabriel-  Our main character, he was so flawed, so morally grey..maybe just grey towards the end. Idk what to make of him. Was he a good guy or bad? You are the judge but he certainly was interesting. I also liked the supporting character, Dior.✅  The art illustrations-  I had the physical copy of this book, and the art in it is simply beautiful.✅  Ending-  It was worth investing my time and energy in this mammoth book.  What I didn't like  ❌  Pacing-  For a 700+ pages book, it did not help that it was also slow. I should have expected it, but I chose not to and well that's on me. I skimmed a bit before the ending. It simply bored me at times and this is one big factor to why my rating is so low. ❌  Inconsistent storytelling-  The whole book is set up with Gabriel narrating his story, it would've been so much better had his story followed one particular timeline at a time. It kept jumping and it made things a tad confusing. Also whenever something interesting happened, the next chapter didn't follow through with it. Another big factor to why my rating is low. ❌  The Middle-  I liked the former half of the first half and the latter half of the second half. The middle was kinda meh only cause it was dragging a lot. I was bored. ❌  Blasphemy-  Look, I get it I signed up for a dark fantasy and I got it. This is the first time I am reading anything from this author so I had zero idea. I also understand that the religion portrayed in this book is not real but it is based on or inspired by Catholicism. Thought it was a bit much. Overall, it is something that everyone will have different opinions on. I'll still continue with the series and see how it goes. ~•~•~  My official review ends here, I am inserting a Christian perspective review of this book, feel free to read or not. This is just something that I felt I had to address🤷‍♀️  I read fantasy cause it's a genre I've always enjoyed reading, and one that I won't stop reading. I take it as a work of fiction and nothing else, which is what I did here too. Nothing to learn from it. My beliefs don't make an impact on the rating of the book but I had to take the blasphemy into consideration. While others will point fingers and say it's my fault to read it.. well it's not up to you, it's my opinion. That being said, some of the things are loosely based on or inspired by Christian and Catholicism beliefs. As a Christian (am not a Catholic), some of the things felt slightly uncomfortable to read. There's mention of Almighty God, Redeemer, some of the things and perspectives are Biblical in nature. So when they're used in vain, and to act in vain..it's not an easy read for a Christian. There are more complexities to the events that happened in the book biblically, but I won't get it into that cause if it's Almighty God's Will, He will reveal it to others. Anyway, what I'm saying is it might not be an easy read for a Christian so if you feel reading something like this will be triggering or sinning.. please don't. I took it as a work of fiction, my faith is not shaken. But it can be a difficult read. So if you do feel in your conscience that it's wrong, please go with that.