Let's begin with the usual caveats: I received an Advanced Reading Copy of this book, for free, from the publisher. I think Jay Kristoff is a nice person. And I think that neither of those two things will affect my honest review of this book. First impressions: 879 pages! And it's only the first part of the story. So for people who like to move into a book and live there for several years, this is for you. It's a rich, well-realized world of darkness and danger. You won't be bored there. The black and white illustrations in the ARC I received are very dramatic and well suited to the tale. I did not receive a page with credits, so I cannot name the artist, but wish I could. The artist deserves praise.Third, and this should probably have been a caveat. I'm not big on vampire stories. But this was from Jay Kristoff, so I gave it a try. It's still not my favorite sub-genre, but I would say Empire of the Vampire is much more than a vampire story. And I am grateful that, for all of their fine manners and sartorial elegance, these vampires are still nasty, evil, horrific villains. As vampires should be.Now, you all probably know that I hate spoilers, so I'm going to dance around a few here. If you like coming of age tales, and even 'sent off to a special place to learn stuff' stories, there is a big chunk of this book that you will really enjoy. If you like lovingly detailed fight scenes, you will get a blood spattered super serving of those. Mysterious library? Some sex? Grumpy mentor, forbidden assignations, a protagonist at the bottom of the pecking order? Check to all of them! Okay, before anyone says, "Oh, those sound like clichés," I would remind you that you can check off a lot of those things in MY books as well. I prefer to think of those things as 'beloved, savory ingredients' in the fantasy feasts we all crave. So what else could be added to make this a full feast? Multi racial, multi gender characters. How about an infusing of mysteries for the reader to speculate about? Some romance, some good old fashioned vendettas. Ooooh, what else can go into the Grimdark feast? Some dumplings of philosophy? At first glance, it may appear to be garnished with sour cynicism, but in the very bottom of the tale, when you stir it, you will find a rich gravy of faith and belief in humanity and the virtues of friendship.So this is my review, more like a recipe for a very enjoyable tale than a critique of plot or characterization. Because I have mentioned so many things that may be seen as 'standard' in fantasy novel, let me assure you that there are no standard characters nor a standard plot between these covers. It's an engrossing read in a rich world. Recommended.