Every time someone asks me about Throne of Glass, I want to chuck Snow Like Ashes at their faces and yell something along the lines of, "Read this thing instead!" Of course, people won't listen to me if I don't justify my suggestion. Here's why I recommend everyone should pick up Snow Like Ashes:Meira knows how to kick ass.“No matter what happens, no matter who turns on me, no matter what pompous swine thinks he has power over me, I am still me. I will always be me.”All her life, all Meira wanted was to become a soldier. A fighter. Someone worthy enough to protect the kingdom she loves so much. She doesn't just want to be a pretty display--she wants to work, and she wants to be deserving of all the things she's been given credit for. Fierce, loyal and protective, Meira's your girl.Snow Like Ashes is high fantasy at its best.I have always been a fan of high fantasy novels. I just love being drawn into new worlds with all sorts of magic and sorcery around. Raasch definitely succeeded in creating a wondrous new world, yet making everything easy to remember and easy to understand. You might be scared to find out that there are eight different kingdoms, but worry not! The author puts everything down simply and sufficiently.Be still, my poor little fangirl heart!I would be crazy not to mention all the feels I got from reading this book, because HELLO MATHER. I was practically in love with this guy since chapter one. Personally, I thought he and Meira and some wonderful chemistry, and I squealed to my heart's delight each time they would have a scene together.Yeah, there is this other guy...Okay, so, there is a love triangle. The guy on the other side is Theron. He's definitely a nice, kind one, but for some reason I couldn't feel anything for him. I was pretty meh every time the guy showed up. I don't hate the guy or anything, I'm just saying that, if by any chance he would, say, get eaten by a bunch of wild piranhas, I wouldn't really care. And yes, I instantly root for the guy the heroine's known longer, and that's Mather in this case. It just seems more believable for me.Raasch knows how to write.“Someday we will be more than words in the dark.”It was really easy for me to get into Raasch's writing. I flew through the pages almost giddily, really. I guess there were a few twists I discovered a bit early, but for the most part, I was on my toes, itching to find out what will happen to Meira, Mather and Sir and not Theron. I also loved that Raasch incorporated family into the story. Sir was like a father-figure to everyone, and I love how they all respected him, and how he gave them care and support in return.