February 12, 2014: Am I the only one that notices that's Xena Warrior Princess's second Chakram on the front cover? I'm not joking.Hmm, maybe I'll read this.February 3, 2015:Okay, so I've written and rewritten my review like a hundred times and I'm kind of sick and tired of writing it now. For now, this is how I feel about the book. This is edited out of 7 pages of half reviews, so don't expect it to be perfect by any means: I finished Snow Like Ashes disappointed because I never felt that spark. The spark that tells you you want to read more, you want to know what happens to these characters, and you want to really be a part of their world. The book is from Meira’s point of view, so I feel like I’m mainly missing her spark, something to pull her out and say I’m not just an average heroine.Meira has her temper tantrums and whiney moments like other YA novels, but that’s not all there is to her and they’re fewer than most female leads I’ve seen in a while. Meira makes up for it enough for me by wielding a Chakram, actually fighting, and her sense of humor.  “Congratulations, everyone. You’ve finally broken Meira, the crazy, orphaned soldier-girl. She’s snapped, all thanks to the mention of floral arrangements.” ~Meira  Meira isn’t Xena by a long shot, but she’s still very likeable. She’s just missing that little spark that makes her something more. Theron is my favorite character of this book. He’s just so selfless.  When he sacrifices himself to force his father’s hand to help Meira, I fell in love with him. If Mather had come in, I feel like it wouldn’t have been as powerful.  He knows all his servants by name and also asks about how they’re truly doing. He spars with his soldiers and even created a map on their wall to remind them of who they are. Not to mention Theron is just really wise with all of his knowledge.Mather is the second part of this love triangle. (I know, I hate love triangles too.) Mather isn’t a bad choice either for Meira, but I felt like Theron was just more developed than Mather. Mather kind of had a few moments where he was all jealous and very annoying. What’s worse, he put himself in that situation. There are a few moments that I really did like Mather, he has these really sweet and cute moments with Meira. At the end of the day, he’s going to have to prove it to me in the next book.  Still kind of ticked that Mather knew Meira was the real princess and got mad at her for doing what she had to. Not to mention he knew about the arranged marriage and doesn’t even give her a hint, just kisses her on the jaw and says he’ll fix this. Fix what? That’s not a real hint.  Sir is kind of a jerk. I’m sorry, I’ll probably get spammed by fans but whatever. Sir gets mad at Meira for calling him father when she’s eight years old. I mean seriously, just explain it to her that you don’t want her to think of you like that, instead he gets all mad at her. Meira also says this which just really made me hurt for her in the matter of Sir:  I never wanted to fade into nothing, but Sir never told me I wouldn’t. He never let me believe I mattered to Winter beyond my responsibility to lead a normal, safe life once our kingdom was free from Angra, regardless of how fervently I tried to prove to him that I was more. He just let me think I would be lost in all this, that I wasn’t important enough to matter further.  When Sir finally gives Meira some recognition, I feel it comes too late and it’s too small to really matter while Meira clings to compliment like it means everything. It actually made me sad for her.Side characters: I’m sorry, but they kind of just drop off and are barely (if ever) heard from again. They never gain any real characterization. While I thought I’d get to know all the Winterian group Meira traveled with, I mean there’s less than ten of them, I’m left off with only really knowing three (one of them Meira). I felt like I knew more about Gregg and Crystalla who are only ever talked about in past tense. Plot: Sadly, some parts of the book were just really predictable. A great amount of the plot is slowed by info dumps that occur nearly every chapter. Whether it be about the history, magic, and customs of the countries, there’s a lot of info dumps. Not all of them are bad, but I felt like some could have been shortened greatly. If it’s important for future novels, go further into it in the next novel because by the time I get through all these info dumps, I won’t remember it unless it mattered to this book’s plot. The overall plot appears to be pretty well thought out though, and for that I’m glad that it’s not forced. Though the scenery was pretty well described throughout the novel giving you a clear picture of the world (though I was also quite thankful to get the map at the beginning of the book to give me an idea of the land layout).Expectations: I tried to keep my expectations really low for this book. I knew that just because Xena’s Chakram was on the front cover, it didn’t mean I would like the book. When I first read the synopsis, I didn’t even really want to read it, it didn’t sound like my cup of tea. Was I influenced by the Chakram on the front to buy this book? Um yeah! At the end of the day, do I feel like my expectations were met? Somewhat, but I’m still disappointed this didn’t ‘wow’ me.This isn’t Xena Warrior Princess, I’ll give you all that much right now. If you’re looking for her, you’re better off marathoning episodes. At the end of the day though, Meira isn’t a bad character, she’s just missing that spark I need. Will I be reading the next one? (Honestly it depends on the cover. I’m kidding of course.) Since it took me this long to actually buy this one though, it may be a while before I decide to go out and buy the next one. Overall, this isn't the greatest book out there, but it's also not the worst. To me, it's just okay. And I guess that is that: