Nothing redeeming about this book at all.SPOILER ALERTAsh's mother (who was some sort of greenwitch) dies. Couple of days later her Father goes into town and returns with the wicked stepmom and 2 step daughters. The old greenwitch Ash's mother apprenticed under warns her father of fairies/elves? but Ash's father refuses to listen to the old ways his deceased wife believes and sends her on her way. Shortly after he becomes 'sick' (some sort of fairy/old magic sickness) and dies. Ash moves into the city with her b*tch stepmom who forces Ash to be her maid to pay off her father's failed business debts. Meanwhile, Ash is meeting this male elf (fairy, whatever they are) who acts cold but protective of her (not letting her enter the fairy rings, forcing her to return home, etc).Enter Kaisa the King's Huntress. The two grow fond of each other. In order to attend some kind of ball and see Kaisa, Ash makes a pact with Sidhean (the elf/fairy guy) but in return she must become his possession in a sense.Blah blah blah, long story short. Sidhean was attracted to Ash's mother because she had the willpower to resist him (he's never been turned down before, major blow to a fae boy's ego). She actually goes as far as to curse him to fall in love with a human girl. And he fell in love with Ash. Ash is in love with Kaisa (and vice versa). To keep her promise, Ash returns to Sidhean, telling him if he truly loved her, he'd let her go but she would stay one day with him to keep her end of the bargain (their 'days' are longer than human days remember). He agrees to this.Ash is able to return to Kaisa and begin their lesbian love affair. thus ends the GLBT version of the Cinderella fairy tale. Are you kidding me? Really nonsensical.Sidhean was way cooler. Like everyone else, I bemoan the fact the author chose to shrug off the dynamics pertaining to him. He just shows up off and on granting her wishes and giving her a ride home. And he had to have been a deep character. He wanted Ash, but kept trying to push her away for her own sake, even though she was kinda of throwing herself at him. He keeps reminding her that her mom is dead, and to stop wishing for her to return. As superstitious as her mom was, Ash KNEW the consequences of asking for gifts/favors from elves/fairies. Yet she asked. TWICE. Sidhean NEVER held anything back from her, like the others of his kind, who try to entice her with their dances and looks and coaxing. He's the exact OPPOSITE, trying to warn her away from him. He's down right cold to her at times (and I'm well aware that the reason for this is partially because he doesn't appreciate being in love with a human girl, but I also think he was taken with Ash's mother's strength ans saw her face in Ash's). He told her upfront, you ask for this, there will be a price: you'll belong to me. And she STILL asked. Doesn't seem fair she gets to have her cake and eat it too.I didn't get a thing from Kaisa. Her character struck me as a bit 'bleh'. She goes around hunting dressed in her boots leggings tunic and bloody gloves. "....." Ok. another thing I didn't get is that, although Ash never tells Kaisa of her deal with Sidhean, Kaisa tells Ash she wants to help her no matter what. So uhh... maybe like, the whole time Ash could have, i dunno, told Kaisa her stepmom was being an abusive ass and..i dunno..she could have stayed with Kaisa? Cut out the middleman (Sidhean)?I'm seriously done ripping through this story.