(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)“On the day we’re the last people to see indie kid Finn alive, we’re all sprawled together in the Field, talking about love and stomachs.”This may be one of the most pointless books I have ever read.Poor Mike had problems, he had OCD, his sister had nearly died due to anorexia, and he was in love with his best friend but didn’t have the guts to tell her. The rest of the story though, was not only confusing, it was also pretty dull.“I wash again in the exact same order. Third time through, I know I’m gone. Forehead, nose, cheekbones, chin, neck. Forehead, nose, cheekbones, chin, neck. Forehead, nose, cheekbones, chin, neck. Shit shit shit shit shit.”The storyline in this was about Mike’s life, but other than one incident, there wasn’t a lot happening. The story seemed to drop us right in the middle of something at the beginning, to the point where I turned back pages to make sure I hadn’t missed something, and then there was words thrown in there with no explanation of what the heck they meant! I mean this was like maze-runner all over again! What the heck is an ‘Indie’ kid? And why do they dislike them so much? Is it a race? Is it a word for kids from the wrong side of the tracks? Or what? Because I’ve read the whole book and still can’t work it out!“There are two more dead indie kids. I didn’t really know either of them.”Then there was the weird paranormal stuff that suddenly came into things. What the heck were the animals and people with weird glowing eyes about? What connection did they have to the murders of the indie kids? I’m guessing that this is supposed to be a story about the lives of normal people, while something paranormal is going on that they’re not involved in? Possibly? But the problem is, that if the normal people’s lives are so interesting that they require a book, why do we even need anything else going on? And why can’t you freaking tell us what’s going on instead of dropping in random weird occurrences, and never telling us what they mean? Can you tell that this has annoyed me?“It’s eyes glow blue, actually glow, and on my back in a soggy ditch as it stands over me, it’s pretty much all I can do not to wet myself.”The ending to this was also confusing, and I just felt that if anything interesting had happened in this book, we weren’t told about it.4.5 out of 10