Copy provided by NetGalleyThere have been a plethora of fantasy-romances-in-the-Regency of late, not surprising considering there's a good chance that a lot of these authors grew up reading Georgette Heyer, and possibly Jane Austen. Except for Susanna Clarke, I don't find Austen's sharp characterization, wit, or style of satire in any of them, however there's a strong feel of Heyer's mix of modernity and her idiosyncratic version of Regency era language in most, and I think that the homage to Heyer is part of the strong appeal as they are entertaining and accessible to readers not steeped in period literature.In Zen Cho's Sorcerer to the Crown, there is a great deal of Heyer's idiom, but without her tendency toward unexamined prejudice and the underlying assumption that Birth Will Always Tell. What Cho gives us instead is a black Sorcerer Royal, who, despite his intelligence and scrupulous honesty, is constantly dealing with insults, assassination attempts, and other forms of bigotry by supposedly well-born Englishmen. Meanwhile, he is also a man of his own time in believing that females are too frail to handle magic . . . until he meets beautiful, dusky-skinned Prunella Gentleman. Then the sparks begin to fly!Meanwhile, there are potentates and witches from foreign lands to deal with, and also awareness of French sorcerers ready to pounce (Cho does the most interesting job, I find, in explaining why magic isn't used in the Napoleonic wars), and oh yes, Britain's magic is seriously ebbing.The book is a great deal of fun, with some laugh-out-loud moments. Some of the motivations might not bear close scrutiny, as is often the way with comedic books, but the many threads, and especially the thoroughly imaginative magic, race along at a spanking pace--while taking some good hard looks at colonialism and the groundless assumptions of the prerogatives of "good birth" when manners, morals, and brains are missing. Come to think of it, however little the language resembles Jane Austen's, in many ways I think the book's intent might have tickled her fancy, considering her trenchant representation of nobly born and pretentiously superior characters in her novels. Her satire of social frauds hiding behind their pedigrees and Cho's sapient eye on same share a great deal of a similar spirit.