"Your amoral ingenuity in the pursuit of your interest is perfectly shocking," said Zacharias severely."Yes, isn't it?" said Prunella, pleased.So What's It About?Zacharias Wythe is Sorcerer Royal of the Unnatural Philosophers, an esteemed position that he has a tenuous hold on because of the racist pushback he faces from the rest of the society. On top of this, the stores of magic in England are drying up and no one knows why. While dealing with all of this, Zacharias happens to cross paths with Prunella Gentleman, a devious young woman with extreme magical power. They are soon entangled in a mess of intrigue and danger that will change the course of magic in England forever.What I ThoughtSorcerer to the Crown is a remarkable debut novel, emulating the style of a Regency era novel with great success. I have read a few other books in this style, most significantly Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell and Sorcery and Celia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot. While Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell fully immerses itself in historical minutiae and archaic details and Sorcery and Celia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot puts the most emphasis on Austenian-style romance, Sorcerer to the Crown finds something of a middle ground. There is a touch of romance, but it is mostly interested in exploring the prejudices and power dynamics of the Regency era through the metaphor of magic. It manages to balance its astute social commentary with charming wit and grace, a feat that would make Austen proud. Add to this two complex and compelling lead characters in Prunella and Zacharias and you've got a winner for sure.Sorcerer to the Crown features an excellent treatment of magic in a historical setting, because it argues that magic would be no different from any other form of power in its misuse, corruption and propagation of entrenched prejudices. In this book we see how the sorcerers of England attempt to use magic as a tool of colonialism, racism and sexism. The matter of racism is explored through both Zacharias's and Prunella's stories, as Zacharias was born a slave and Prunella is half Indian.Zacharias's life is dictated by the ways other delegitimize him because of his skin color - he is constantly doubted, disrespected and ultimately threatened and endangered because he is a man of color in power. I think his story goes a long way towards demonstrating the futility of respectability politics - no matter how many times he proves himself to be competent, qualified and the perfect gentleman, he is still treated with contempt and disrespect by many of the other sorcerers. As he says to Prunella:"It is not within my power to make you respectable. I cannot even do that for myself."No matter how perfectly he behaves, he will never be perfect enough to make up for the transgression of being black. There is also the matter of his secret anger and resentment towards his benefactor, Sir Stephen, who purchased him when he was a child:"Did not Sir Stephen purchase your parents as well?""No, said Zacharias. "Presumably he did not discern the same potential in them."The statement brought up the old anger and confusion, followed by the accustomed guilt, that he should be so ungrateful as to resent the man who had rescued him from bondage. And yet he did resent Sir Stephen, even now.The relationship with Sir Stephen is a complicated one, to say the least. There are true regard and love between the two of them, but Zacharias has spent a long time forbidding himself to acknowledge the validity of his confusion, anger and resentment. These feelings of conflict arise not only in his individual relationship with Sir Stephen, but also in his role as the Sorcerer Royal, dedicated to serving the goals of a country that has very much been an enemy to Zacharias and countless other people of color around the world:"You are called upon to advance the good of this nation, and none other. Your allegiance is no to magic alone, nor to all humanity, but to your own portion of humanity, to the country that nurtured you-""And enslaved my parents?" said Zacharias.What I especially appreciated about Cho's depiction of historical racism is that it's also intersectional. Prunella and Zacharias experience the world in very different ways as men and women of color, and Prunella is very pragmatic about the fact that her primary goal is to find a rich husband because there are certain opportunities that will simply not be afforded to her until she is seen as a legitimate figure within London's social circles, and there are a very limited number of ways that she can make herself respectable as a poor, young, unmarried woman of color. Her goal is to knock off the "poor" and "unmarried" descriptors and hope that that takes her far enough. In addition, Zacharias starts out the story not thinking twice about the way that women are barred from doing magic, and he must unlearn his ignorance as he gets to know Prunella. His own personal experiences as an outsider because of his race give him empathy for her experiences as an outsider because of bother her gender and her race.There's one quote in particular that I really loved from his process of unlearning his sexism:"Surely feminine magic must be curbed, magic being so peculiarly detrimental to women's delicate frames. Besides, magic was too hard to come by in these days for it to be frittered away in women's frivolities - ballgowns and christening gowns and gowns of other descriptions.Yet the moment this thought passed through Zacharias's mind, his conscience presented the image of Lady Wythe as a counterpoint. Anyone less likely to waste magic in fripperies was impossible to imagine- unless it were the cooks, maids, charwomen, herbwives, and other females of the lower classes, who were permitted to practise their craft in peace, because they employed it for the benefit of their betters.For that matter, what could be more wasteful than the manner in which the heedless young members of the Theurgist's amused themselves? Magical fireworks and talking reflections were the least of their extravagances."Zacharias begins to understand in this section that the gendered restriction on magic usage is at its heart a matter of hypocrisy. The men in power justify women's powerlessness through the use of stereotypes that they themselves embody and in fact have no basis in the way that women truly are. What's more, they are perfectly willing to turn around and ignore these rules and justifications entirely so long as they have the power of class privilege to ensure that poor women only use their magic in the service of "their betters."Matters of colonialism are primarily explored through Britain's negotiations with the island of Janda Baik, located in the Malay peninsula. The government is concerned about placating the island's leader because of its incredibly valuable location to Britain's colonial ventures, and asks Zacharias to intervene in the island's conflicts using his magic. Enter Mak Genggang, a witch who is directly opposed to the island's current leader and Britain's colonial ventures. She and her witches embody resistance to the patriarchal and colonialist powers that are attempting to control their magic and their island, and it is not insignificant that they are also protecting vampiresses who became undead because they were wronged in their lives. It's also notable that Prunella's mother was betrayed by her father, who deceived her with the goal of obtaining Indian riches for Britain, and that Prunella comes into her own power by accessing this portion of her legacy in full.As a final point, I'd like to just take a moment to celebrate Prunella in full. She's a truly delightful character; incredibly determined, charming, resourceful, brilliant and (as it turns out) rather ruthless when it comes to achieving her goals."You are a godless creature enough, Prunella."Prunella acceded to this description of herself cheerfully: "I had no one to teach me better, you see."