This book has absolutely no idea what it is trying to say or what story it is trying to tell. Ariadne, quite bizarrely, is a story titled after an extraordinarily passive woman who has minimal agency in her own life, and the book barely fills in the contours of the well-known myths. This is like reading a narrative version of the Wikipedia page for the Ariadne story, though you could probably learn more about Ariadne by just going to Wikipedia. There's a somewhat garbled thread about the misogynistic treatment of women in classical myth, but simply pointing this treatment out is not original or noteworthy, and is directly contradicted by the overall plot of the book. If you are considering reading this book because you enjoy the works of Madeline Miller, I can confirm that this book is not remotely similar. Sorry to disappoint.This book begins with a prologue about Ariadne's father Minos brutally killing the princess Scylla, who betrays her kingdom to Minos for love. One might think that this would bode well for the story of Ariadne, who essentially betrays her own kingdom by giving Theseus the secret to the Labyrinth, as the stakes are high from the start. It does not. In this version, Ariadne is only nominally the keeper of the Labyrinth (which seems to be a rather poor maze since the one time she enters it the Minotaur is able to immediately find her, and she escapes in the nick of time). She falls for Theseus over the course of about 12 hours - to the point that she is willing to betray her family - but she does not actually provide any of the wit or courage necessary to help him escape. Daedalus suggests the ball of thread, and her sister Phaedra provides Theseus's weapon. One might think that Ariadne, who does nothing through the first third of the novel and then does practically nothing to help Theseus escape, would be a poor candidate to rebel against a father who has shown exactly what will happen to a rebellious daughter. It happens anyway! Once Ariadne is alone on Naxos, she does even less. While she lives among the maenads of the Cult of Dionysus, she does not participate in the rites or even show a sliver of interest in what's going on around her. The stories continue to happen, life flows on, and Ariadne sits on Naxos thinking about how she does nothing. It's really unbelievable.The characters in the book are all one-note. Theseus is fame-obsessed, Dionysus is "not like other gods" (until he IS!!!! omg), Ariadne is a spectator, and Phaedra is "headstrong" (until she is NOT!!! omg). There is zero nuance, which is hugely disappointing given the character arcs for Theseus, Ariadne, and Phaedra, and particularly for a book that tries to talk about the inherent danger and cruelty of the gods. I thought for a bit that the story was really going to be about sisters, which would make sense given the vague feminist handwaving, but the Ariadne/Phaedra reunion is weirdly devoid of emotion and happens only to service Phaedra's plot. And that vague feminist handwaving doesn't even work on the most basic level. Before Ariadne runs away with Theseus: "Today I would seize my destiny for myself ... My story would not be one of death and suffering and sacrifice."When Ariadne falls in love with Dionysus: "He showed me that he was truly the best of all men, of all gods."When Ariadne has spent a decade (!) with Dionysus: "I had been trusting and obedient. I had thought that was the right way to be--the path to peace and happiness."When Dionysus sends the Argive women mad: "I saw him for what he was, no different from the mightiest of gods. Or the basest of men ... he could measure his glory in female torment." What am I supposed to take from this? That it's impossible for Ariadne to break out of the suffering that men (and gods) cause in creating their legends? She certainly doesn't try - the woman is so passive that she knows nothing about the world or about her own husband. It would be better to write this as a tragedy and show an active heroine who tries to break out of the fate set for her, and who chooses Dionysus because he is interesting and powerful.I probably should have put this book down about 100 pages in, when Phaedra wants to go by Naxos on the way to Athens but has to, and I quote, "sail direct," like she is choosing an Easyjet route. The inclusion of "sail direct" really tickled me. At least the book made me laugh out loud! Alas. I have had to go back to The King Must Die to ensure I get better Theseus content.