Say one thing for Joe Abercrombie, say he makes me want to undress his books and make sweet love to them. I love them that bloody much.I started A Little Hatred, the first installment in the Age of Madness trilogy, with the attitude that more First Law can't be a bad thing.  To say it absolutely blew my expectations out of the water would be a bit of an understatement. It was absolutely fantastic.  And guess what? I'm going to tell you all about it. I'm good like that."When one man knowingly kills another, they call it murder! When society causes the deaths of thousands, they shrug and call it a fact of life."First off, this is a follow on from the author's original First Law trilogy and in my opinion you at least need to read that first before starting this one.  In fact, I highly recommend the three standalone novels and short story collection too, as that will give you the maximum enjoyment out of this experience.It's an Abercrombie novel, so it's packed with violence, dark humour and memorable characters.  We've got politics, power and brutal, bloody warfare in bucket loads. But it's noticeable, that as good as his writing always has been, it's becoming tighter and his ability to construct a plot even sharper.  As sharp as a knife and you can never have too many knives.The Young Lion Vs the Great WolfA common criticism of his first novel, the Blade Itself, was that it lacked a clear narrative.  With A Little Hatred we see a clear structure that moves despite being the first part of a three book series.  Don't get me wrong, it leaves a lot of avenues open, like any good opening novel should.  It's also very character driven.  But there's a number of key events taking place that are moving the reader forward and keeping them engaged.The story itself takes the themes and plotlines from the original and completely expands upon them while introducing a completely new set of characters.  It's a volatile time for the Union as war rages in the north and internal struggles threaten to overspill and destroy the empire from within. The First Law world has entered a new era, as the author places the reader in the midst of an industrial revolution. It's refreshing to see in a fantasy setting and gives this book a feel of historical fiction, as oppose to classical fantasy. But that's Abercrombie for you, forever smashing those tropes that are heavily associated with the genre."My da used to say times of peace are when the wise prepare for violence."The author uses this setting to explore a number of themes like the class divide and how the poor suffer at the hands of the rich.  I'm not huge on things like this, I just love a good story. But it is something that Abercrombie has improved dramatically in as he develops as a writer.  So if you enjoy all that literary stuff you're in for a treat.I'm trying to cut these reviews down and failing miserably. But I can't go without talking about the characters. As we come to expect from an Abercrombie novel, A Little Hatred gives us a large cast, all of whom are memorable and some absolutely brilliant.  We have Rikke, the daughter of...cough cough...I won't spoil that one for you. A northern girl with the power of the Long Eye giving her the ability to see into the future and past. Savine, a ruthless businesswoman who will do anything to get to the top.  Leo dan Brock, a reckless warrior who prefers acts of valour over established tactics.  Finally, my personal favourites Prince Orso, the vain but intelligent and highly entertaining heir to the throne and Gunnar back from the war but unable to leave it behind him as he struggles to contain the rage that bubbles within.Rikke has a close shaveFans of Grimdark or fantasy in general. This is the book for you. Just remember to read those previous books first. You can thank me later. The new book and final installment of the trilogy is out 19th September 2021. Can't wait for that special delivery from Lord Grimdark. You can't have too much First Law!"Bad men are a terrible curse, no doubt, right up until you're in bad trouble and there's one on your side. Then they're the best thing ever."