This book was amazing. I really liked Abercrombie's last series so it seemed like a logical move to dive into this one. Wow. I had no idea it was going to be this good or I would've read it a long time ago.It's definitely grimdark, but not the grimdark that is dark and gritty for the sake of being dark and gritty. It's more like a prototype for grimdark. The story builds on the offspring of some of the characters from the last series most of which are gone or elderly. The world they inherited from their parents is every bit as violent and unyielding, but now magic is fading a bit. Bayaz is course exactly the same, but mechanisms and steam are starting to emerge and become more reliable than his stock in trade. Typically, I am not a fan of mixing technology and magic, but it works here. There is a dying earth sort of vibe except it is magic that is fading rather than the sun. Revolution is everywhere and more than once I wondered if the author could possibly be influenced by events that were likely current while the book was being written. It could simply be that the some ideas are archetypal and have repeated themselves in human civilization time and time again. In any case, the people are likable (even when they are evil), the plot is compelling, the setting believable and industrial and the overall compilation excellent. Think Dickens meets steampunk meets George RR Martin. The author is a master of dialogue. I can literally tell who the speaker is by reading the dialogue which is complete with recognizable dialects and local idioms. The author was good in the last series and the supplementary books- in this series he proves his mastery of the craft of language. There were long stretches of time I simply could not put this book down. I actually finished it a couple of days ago and am currently plowing through the second one. I just didn't get this review written until now.Overall, this book has moved close to one of the best reads ever for me. If I could rate it higher than five stars I would.Five stars.