"When one man knowingly kills another, they call it murder! When society causes the deaths of thousands, they shrug and call it a fact of life."I have had mixed feelings about Abercrombie, and here is why. Before starting The First Law series, I expected that I would give all the books five stars. They sounded like they were right up my alley! I have read the First Law Trilogy and Best Served Cold, and I gave them either 4.0 or 4.5 stars. Although I have enjoyed all of Abercrombie's books, I feel like they might have been slightly overhyped for me. I have still rated all his books high (4 stars is a good rating!!), but I expected them to blow my mind! Therefore, I was incredibly excited to read A Little Hatred since I have heard that it is one of Abercrombie's best works so far! So what did I think?I can safely say that this is my favourite First Law book that I have read! A Little Hatred is grim, complex, imaginative and the character work is terrific! This book will make you cringe, laugh and scared! Firstly, the character work is incredible. Although there is a wide cast of characters and multiple different POVs, all the characters feel distinct. Each character has a distinctive tone, demeanour and personality! There are few authors out there that can create such vivid and complex characters as Abercrombie! A Little Hatred depicts a world where life is cruel and unfair. There is injustice, abuse and betrayal everywhere. A Little Hatred is a book that asks the question:" What would life be like if everything was against you?" Most of the characters in this book are selfish, narcissistic and pessimistic, but you somehow understand why they act in such ways. Life is so cruel in this world. If you are not greedy, you probably won't survive – It is truly every man for himself.I loved seeing how The First Law world has progressed. The world is being industrialised, and machines are becoming a part of everyday life in factories. The rise of industrialism and urbanisation leads to complex issues such as worker's rights and employee welfare. There are way too many fantasy worlds that never progress into the modern age, so reading this book felt refreshing. The overall story is fantastic. A Little Hatred constantly kept me turning the pages, and there were some shocking moments and exciting plot twists in this book which made the reading experience so enjoyable! While the first half introduces the characters and the plot, s**t hits the fan in the second half.It was a bit of shock picking up this book since it has been a while since I last read an Abercrombie book. I had forgotten how grim this world is. There is a lot of swearing, grim scenes and abuse in The First Law world. In conclusion, I loved this book. A Little Hatred is the best First Law book I have read and is a must-read for fans of grimdark or Abercrombie! I can't wait to read The Trouble with Peace next!5 / 5 stars