10/10For those who hold Joe Abercrombie's First Law trilogy in the utmost esteem like I do, you will be very pleased to know that this book is the start of a new series set in that same world. In fact, some of the main characters in A LITTLE HATRED are the children or other family members of characters from First Law. The setting is also a very familiar one, with the action taking place some years after the turbulent events of the first series. All of this makes for a wonderful transition and extension of that particular story arc while giving us something very new to chew on.Welcome back to Angland, where much has changed in the past 30 or so years, and yet in some cases much has not changed. The Union still struggles to maintain stability in a land where marauders and enemy armies continually nip at its heels and test its tenuous rule. There's also quite a bit of back-biting and double-dealing from within which doesn't help matters. This is a land where power speaks and the best way to gain power is by eliminating your enemies (possibly using underhanded methods if necessary). As with the previous series, there are threats to The Union from outside its borders, the only thing different is the leaders who have now taken up the mantle. The population is growing increasingly bitter and discontented as refugees fleeing from other lands flood into Union territory seeking a reprieve from the corruption and brutality of their own feckless rulers.Ultimately the refugee infusion causes an untenable situation as extreme resentment creeps in and very disparate cultures are forced into a situation where they are competing for the already limited resources provided by an uncaring government only concerned with its own greed and power. The Union faces potential invasion as a growing army masses to the north and is preparing for war. Can The Union prevail when forces from both outside and inside its ranks are slowly eating away at it like a parasite? Or will the past few decades of relative peace result in it being too soft and ill-prepared for the onslaught that may be about to be unleashed from the north?A LITTLE HATRED has all of the violence, brutality, world-building and witty humor that we have come to expect from the Lord of Grimdark himself, Joe Abercrombie. I'm avoiding spoilers here for those who haven't read the First Law trilogy, but if you haven't read those yet, what is wrong with you? What I will say is that for those who may have been afraid that Abercrombie was getting a little soft after releasing a YA series a few years ago, rest assured that the master is back and better than ever!What I found especially gratifying in this book is the way that we were allowed to be connected again to some very familiar characters through their children. For instance there's Savine dan Glokta, daughter of my favorite character in any Fantasy series, hated torturer and inquisitor Sand dan Glokta. Savine has all of the guile and wit of her father but with a tenacity and cunning of her own that makes her a very worthy adversary to those who would cross her. Then there's Rikke, daughter of the battle-tested friend of Logen Ninefingers, Dogman. Rikke has the ability to see the future through a gift called The Long Eye. What she sees in her latest visions are truly horrifying indeed, and could have implications beyond imagining.These characters plus a multitude of others really make up the strength of this phenomenal story. Abercrombie has always been my favorite author when it comes to writing incredible dialogue, and A LITTLE HATRED shows him in top form once again where that is concerned. I mean the guy can flat-out write brilliant dialogue and his characters are always fleshed out to an amazing degree. I'm so glad that I was able to revisit this world again and get immersed in such a wonderful book that doesn't rehash any old ground, but rather expands on the past history to give us an entirely new and engaging story to enjoy. A LITTLE HATRED is a can't miss book filled with violence, treachery, suspense, humor, adventure, and that special storytelling knack that can only come from one of the best writers in the genre. If you want an amazing read that won't disappoint, pick this one up and read it cover to cover. The more I read Joe Abercrombie's books, the higher he moves up in the pantheon of the best of the best in Fantasy. Well done Lord Grimdark! If this first book is any indication of what is to come, then I eagerly anticipate the next installment with much enthusiasm indeed. Just a quick note, if you are wondering whether you can jump right into this book without reading his First Law trilogy I would say yes and no. Yes it is a totally self-contained story and you can absolutely read this book and enjoy it on its own merits. However, if you truly want to get the best reading experience from A LITTLE HATRED, I highly recommend reading the First Law trilogy. It will give you a much deeper understanding of events and circumstances while also providing valuable insight into the characters.