Profound and thought-provoking, this novel will rarely allow you to catch your breath with its fast-paced and nerve-wracking atmosphere. Pierce Brown stayed true to all what made me love Red Rising and even upped the game. I couldn't have wished for a better sequel.
"For seven hundred years, my people have been enslaved without voice, without hope. Now I am their sword."
In Golden Son, Darrow continues in his quest of infiltrating into Society ruled by Golds, so he can gain freedom for his people. What used to be life to death "game" between students is now even deadlier real life fight that touches all Colors in Solar System. This sequel had different pace, setting and feel than its predecessor, yet I knew I was reading the same story. And I loved it even more.Characters. Depiction and development of characters in this series is outstanding and after reading this book I truly believe that Pierce Brown knows no bounds when it comes to creating fascinating characters. Character-wise, I learnt my lesson in first book - do not get attached. Because besides action, philosophy and politics; this novel is full of deceits, twists and betrayals. What happens when lines between friends and enemies are blurred? Whom can Darrow really trust?Writing style has this special melancholic and gutsy quality into it. It fits Darrow's character perfectly. It feels like it truly mirrors his deepest thoughts and moods without any sort of prettification or reserves. It's probably main reason why I feel so connected to Darrow, why I love his character so much. His souls is stripped bare on the pages of this novel, his personality hardened by the life-events he had to go through and it's up to readers to decide whether they accept Darrow the way he is or not. Author does not make excuses. And author definitely does not shy away from despair, brutality and all forms of raw emotions when telling Darrow's story.
"Were I still the man Eo knew, I would have stood frozen in horror. But that man is gone. I mourn his passing every day."
Storytelling. Pierce Brown excels at it and he secured top place among my favorite authors with his madly bloodydamn good storytelling skills. There is nothing I love more than author's ability to completely consume my thoughts and transfer me into the world he creates on the pages of his novel so I feel like I am right there experiencing everything together with the characters. Pierce Brown achieved that with Red Rising and now with the Golden Son as well. I have never read better thought-out story with such an attention to minor details than this one and I can't wait to find out what has Mr. Brown prepared for us in the final book of this phenomenal trilogy!*ARC provided by publisher as an exchange for honest review*MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG 
Reading Is My Breathing