Updated Review:I have this quirk . . . I call it my "false sense of urgency." It sometimes makes me impatient and unforgiving when I'm reading a book for the first time, and if the new book happens to be the latest installment of one of my favorite series, the possibility of that first read suffering the effects of my FSoU goes up exponentially.*glances sheepishly at GOLDEN SON* 1. I don't care about the bloody Ash Lord.2. There was TONS of info about Obsidians and Stained, it just wasn't the info I wanted, so I threw a temper tantrum.3. The sequence that I felt heavily resembled a sequence from STAR TREK INTO DARKNESS . . . I don't know if it was b/c I had watched the movie just prior to reading it, or if it was another byproduct of FSoU, but this time . . . Yeah, it didn't bother me at all. *shrugs awkwardly*4. I downplayed it in my original review, but I was also extremely aggravated by Darrow continuing to keep his friends at arms-length, even as he recognized the damage his withholding was causing to those relationships.On this second pass, not only did it no longer feel redundant and obstinately foolish, but the friend I most resented being kept at a distance came across as petulant and self-righteous (more about that it the spoiler-tagged section).Funnily enough, before my reread, I thought I might have to lower the rating (to 4.0 from 4.5) now that the post-first-read-high had worn off.Instead I'm raising it to 5.0. SPOILERY FINAL THOUGHTS:1. I'm sorry, but Roque is a little bitch. Where the hell does he get off blaming Darrow for their friends' deaths? Eff you, dude. Efffff youuuuuu.Quinn's a big girl. She--and everyone else who got involved--understood what they were signing up for: CHALLENGING THE SOVEREIGN. No one is responsible for her death except for Aja (also a bitch). As for Tactus, he was a turncoat who had to be talked down from murdering Lorn's GRANDCHILDREN. I'm not saying I didn't hurt for him. I did. I hate that he was so screwed up by his upbringing that he couldn't . . . just let himself be. But it was no one's fault but his own that he bit it.2. Obviously, in light of all that I'm no longer holding out hope that Roque is some kind of double agent . . . *grimaces* Sorry, Robin . . . It made sense when we talked about it last year, but not a chance in hell. Hopefully by the time you finish your reread, you'll think he's a prat, too. *crosses fingers*3. “I found out later, Nero contrived an agreement with the daughter of the sitting Sovereign. You know her as Octavia au Lune. Younger then, she convinced her father to give Nero the throne of Mars and his revenge; in return, she earned Nero’s support when she led the faction that overthrew and killed her father five years later. That is the man you started a war for.”
HOLY SHIT.4. “Narol … is he …?” “Dead? Aye. He’s dead.” The breath goes out of me. “How long?” “Two years ago,” she chuckles. “Fell down a mineshaft with Loran. Never found the bodies.”
I'm with Darrow's mamma--I'll believe it when I see their dead bodies.5. 
“Then farewell hope, and with hope farewell fear. Farewell remorse: all good to me is lost.” He whispers to some distant, fading part of himself as he lazily lifts the scorcher to his father’s forehead. “Evil, be thou my good.” “Stop!” Aja steps forward. “Adrius! In the name of the Sovereign …” The Jackal shoots his father in the head.
There is something so sinister about Jackal quoting Lucifer's lines from PARADISE LOST, like he's at that moment becoming a fallen angel. Dude, you've been an evil bastard your whole life. Or at least since you were TEN and arranged the death of YOUR BROTHER. GTFO.PS: I swear to god, if Antonia, Cassius, and Jackal don't die, and by "die" I mean die horribly, there's gonna be 'percussions. Roque, too. Maybe . . . Probably . . . DEATH COUNT:QuinnTactus Bellonas, excepting Cassius and his evil motherPliny Victra LornAugustusFitchner/ARESReviewed by: Rabid ReadsRight. SO . . . after finishing GOLDEN SON did I:A. Shriek incomprehensibly. Over and over (and over) again.B. Sit in a semi-comatose state staring at nothing for an indefinite period of time.C. Explain (in detail) to my poor mother (whom I was visiting) EXACTLY what my problem was, despite her having never read either book from this series, and thus being unable to understand what I was ranting about.That was a rhetorical question. Obviously, I did them all.Pierce Brown, (handsome) devil that he is, lured us into a false sense of security in RED RISING. He taught us that, yes, Bad Things would happen--LOTS of Bad Things--but by the end, we'd have found our footing. We'd know that there was more coming--and HOORAY for that--but the individual installment would be resolved<------LIES.But there is far more to GOLDEN SON than it's epic cliffhanger of DOOM.In fact, if it weren't for a few minor issues, I'd say it was even better than RED RISING, which tied for first place on my Best Books of 2014 list.GOLDEN SON continues to reveal the complexity of Darrow's situation: a Red who is a Gold/a Gold who is a Red. What Darrow originally imagined as a simple infiltration and sabotage mission has become infinitely more complicated, and where his hard-learned lessons from RED RISING were painful, his mistakes in this newest installment are downright agonizing. He makes those mistakes in both his personal and professional life, while you are forced to watch helplessly. You watch helplessly as Darrow enters into an alliance with Jackal, and visions of

dance through your head.You watch helplessly as Darrow continually keeps his friends at a distance, even as he acknowledges the potentially irreparable damage to the relationships.You watch helplessly as the chaos of battle ensues, knowing something . . . something terrible . . . is about to happen.And yet, once again, Brown was able to offset the trepidation and dread he made you carry along like travel companions with both well-placed hilarity, like Kavax au Telemanus, who feeds his pet fox jellybeans, and also with fascinating new details about the caste system Darrow is trying to overthrow, like a branch of Obsidians referred to as Stained.So it was fantastic. GOLDEN SON will probably be my favorite book in 2015. BUT. While Brown's ability to paint truly vivid pictures, and to elicit real emotions remains uncompromised, several details were still unclear to me by the end of book.The Ash Lord. I did a word search in both books and found that, yes, he had been mentioned briefly in RED Rising as having nuked the world of Rhea into oblivion, and as being the minion of Octavia au Lune, the Sovereign Consul. Various mentions are made to his burning and pillaging in GOLDEN SON as well, but always in a seemingly offhand way so that I never really grasped what was supposed to be so terrifying about the man. Yes, cerebrally I can comprehend that destroying an entire planet is a terrible thing, but I need meaningful details for something to matter, and in reference to the Ash Lord, there were none. 

Then again, watching Alderaan get blown to bits never made much of dent either, so maybe I'm a sociopath. *shrugs*BUT. Yes, I was fascinated by them, but I was never satisfied with the introduction of the Stained. As far as we've been told, there are two kinds of Reds: underground slaves like Darrow, and those who live above ground and work as menial laborers. The distinction may or may not be arbitray (I have suspicions, but that's for another time). There are also several types of Golds, but the separations are self-imposed and based on achievement, or lack thereof, and are explained as such. If there are deviations within the other colors, we have yet to learn of them.And yet, the Stained, a subdivision of Obsidians, are tossed at us as elite bodyguards without explanation. Elite bodyguards, who like the Ash Lord, inspire fear with only the mention of their name. In the first half of the book, they are an almost constant background presence . . . in the retinue of some Gold or another . . . making everyone inexplicably nervous . . . and then we find out why: Ragnar Volarus.Ragnar Volarus, "a dread creature stitched from shadow and muscle and armor, " and who is, incidentally, one of my new favorite characters. If there are any WHEEL OF TIME fans out there, Ragnar reminded me a lot of that honkin' myrddraal, Shaidar Haran. For the rest of you, that means he's a Stained to make even other Stained quake with fear, who seems capable of intelligent and independent thought, unlike other Obsidians and Stained who simply follow orders. But regardless, we never learn the reason for the divide between Obsidian and Stained, and while that may seem a small thing, for an OCD reader (like myself), every, single time I read the word "Stained" on a page, and every, single time Ragnar was present, in the not-so-back of my mind, I was screaming, "Why? Why, why, whyyyyyy?" It was a consistent distraction. And I'm not going to harp on it, b/c nobody else (that I talked to) even picked up on it, but the scenario where we first met Ragnar . . . It (to me) bore a striking similarity to a certain memorable scene in STAR TREK INTO DARKNESS. Okay, I'm sorry. I tried really, really hard to let it go, but not only did Darrow and Servo shoot through space in nothing but spacesuits to infiltrate an enemy vessel, but once they got there, Ragnar crushed someone's head with his bare hands. Like a grape. *shudders*But all of those are piddly complaints. The only reason they warrant mentioning at all (except the STAR TREK thing, b/c that really bugged me), is b/c they are the reason I'm giving GOLDEN SON 4.5 stars instead of 5.0, when I thought the story and writing were even more compelling than in RED RISING, which I did give 5.0 stars. That's my story, and I'm sticking to it.Bottom line: Read it, read it NOW. My other reviews for this series:
Red Rising (Red Rising Trilogy, #1)

Morning Star (Red Rising Trilogy, #3)