Gah! FairyLoot edition! Can I just take a moment to give credit to this wonderful ending ↓I can't even right now! Okay, lets move on to a little bit of a more sedate review. First off I love Darrow, Sevro, Ragnar, Quinn and Mustang and I swear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Well, I love a lot of the side characters but I'm most in love right now with Sevro, Darrow and Ragnar in that order. I can't even write this review! This book is all over the place with everything! Blowing people up in space, bloody battles, stupidity, more people being blown up here and there and everywhere! People you like getting killed. People you don't like that you want to beat into the ground! Oh and the part with Darrow and his mom made me cry! Let me just add some random excerpts that have to do with Darrow and Sevro and stuff! 
I explode through the bridge like a ball of lead shot into a store of china and glass. I crash into displays and strategy desks before blasting through the reinforced metal of the bridge walls, through the steel of the hallways till at last I slam bodily into a bulkhead a hundred meters through and past the bridge. Dazed. Can't find Sevro. I call him over the com. He groans something about his ass. Maybe he did shit himself.
Okay, so here is a moment that Darrow and Sevro had together after finding out a revelation. It brought a tear to my eye for reasons, there's always reasons people. Well, the tear to my eye came after the first part and some stuff and then the other stuff =D
Sevro spits in my face, right under the eye. "Guess wrong again and I leave you like this." He snaps his fingers. "I will not come back. I will not help you. I will not bleed for you. I will not sacrifice my friends for a man who doesn't give enough of a shit about me to put his neck out just once. Trust goes both ways, Darrow. This time you have to take a leap."
shfosehgsoihgsiodhfsidfhsifh some stuff and. . . 
He can't say any more because I'm hugging him and crying. I sob and hold on to him, shaking, scaring him. He doesn't move except to pat me on the head. All the weight falls from my shoulders. Someone knows. He knows and he's here. He knows and he came to help me. To help me. I can't stop shaking and saying thank you. Eo was right. I was right. "You are my friend," I tremble out like a child. It almost makes him cry seeing me this way.
Once again, that ending! I can't even! It was messed right up and sad but good. We can't have it all! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List