Holly Black is my QueenBut if you didn't believe in monsters, then how were you going to be able to keep safe from them?Tana lives in a world where vampires are no longer creatures of myths.  Only Holly Black can take such a worn out trope and breath fresh life into it. Even from the beginning, that was the problem. People liked pretty things. People even liked pretty things that wanted to kill and eat them. And, like any good government, the US immediately banished the "new" citizens to concentration camps...well, technically walled cities with a good internet connection. But there is extreme poverty, disease and death for all the humans living inside.And the vamps love it. They use the internet to lure in humans - the downtrodden and the adventure seeking - to join their city and become food. People go in but never out.Tana wants none of that but when an accidental encounter leaves her potentially infected, she knows she's going to have to go to Coldtown to protect herself and her family. Remember that I’m still a monster. I can listen to you scream and cry and beg and I still won’t let you out. I love the characters in this book. Tana and her little sister had such a realistic give-and-take  relationship. Also, the vampire (Gavriel) was such a refreshing twist - he was just the right mixture of moodiness, insanity and danger. This is my second time through and I enjoyed it just as much as the first. Audiobook CommentsThe book was a 4.5 for me but listening it it - 5.0 - definitely. This is one of my all time fave audiobooks - huge thank you to Christine Lakin for reading this one.I've read a few books that use music in between chapters and I'm normally not a fan. This book just blew me away. The music drifts in and out to build the story. There's haunting melodies, fanfare for the tense moments and gah it just brings the tension and intrigue to the next level.And I really enjoyed listening to the reader's voice. She just had this evocative and electrifying tone. Loved it. She's one of the few female readers that actually rocked it when she read the guy voices.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads