✅ World-building✅ Originality ✅ Characters and interactions✅ Dark atmosphere✅🆗 Pace ✅🆗 Plot❗️❗️ There is (almost) no romance in this book3.5 starsThat was the problem with monsters. Sometimes they looked just like everybody else.Tana lives in a world where vampires are not a secret anymore. They are either despised, or revered, and while some people are scared of them and know how bloody and gory they can be, others are dreaming of becoming fashionable and ever-young vampires. Tana managed to (mostly) stay away from vampires her whole life, until she wakes up one morning (or rather an afternoon) after a wild party, and discovers that everyone in the house is either dead or has been bitten. A little difference in this book is that when someone is bitten, they turn cold; if they consume human blood, they become a vampire, but if they manage to resist, their body will eventually fight off the Coldness, and they will remain normal humans."Allow me to explain how my whole life has prepared me for this moment. I am used to girls screaming, and your screams – will be sweeter than another’s cries of love."This book is a little bit gory and the atmosphere is dark and a kind of horror-like at times, but it is not a thriller at all. It's just that the vampires in this book are less fashionable and human-like than they are in Twilight (no sparkling in the sun here). They kill, they torture, and they don't give a shit about humans. Coldtowns are also lawless places where vampires and humans are dumped, and can never leave. There are no police in Coldtowns, no things can become quite hectic and crazy sometimes.Even from the beginning, that was the problem. People liked pretty things. People even liked pretty things that wanted to kill and eat them.The world-building is also great and well explained, without any info dump, and even though it's about vampires and we've seen hundreds of YA books with vampires in them, this one was very creative. The concept of having Coldtowns where vampires live, and where you have to go to quarantine yourself if you're bitten was quite original. I also adored the whole "vampire having reality show and being treated like Hollywood stars" aspect of the world-building. It seemed weird at first because I'm used to books where vampires are staying hidden and their very existence is a well-kept secret, but at the same time, it fits so well with the way our society works. Teenagers are dreaming of becoming immortal and fashionable like vampires are, and reality shows are being produced about vampires and vampire hunters, it's part of what made this book stand apart from all the other vampire books I've read.“We all wind up drawn to what we're afraid of, drawn to try to find a way to make ourselves safe from a thing by crawling inside of it, by loving it, by becoming it.”Most of the story is told from Tana's POV, but there are also a few chapters told from different POVs, and they did enhance the whole story. Those different POVs helped us better understand the characters, and they made the story feel more real. There are also a few flashbacks in this book, and I don't usually like flashbacks much in books, but I have to say that it was well done in this one. They were relevant to the plot and not too long, and they did help us better understand the motivations and interactions of the characters.If she was going to die, she might as well die sarcastic.Tana is a great main character, she is independent, resilient, and pushes through, no matter what happens to her. This whole book revolves around her, her interactions with others, and her relationship with the idea of maybe becoming a vampire. The only thing that bothered me a little about her, is how insanely mentally strong she is! She witnesses bloody massacres, murders, fighting, and killing, but she never breaks down! I would have had a few mental breakdowns if I'd had to go through everything she went through! She is terrified, but she somehow manages to push everything down and continue with her quest. There is some romance in this book, but it is not the main focus of the plot, so it's a good book for you if you want a break from romance-driven young adult books.Even though this book is full of action and bloody vampires, I somehow struggled to really get into it. The plot was not that great for me, hence the 3.5 stars review. Still, it was a very good book to read, and it is worth it for the original world-building and Holly Black's unique representation of vampires living in our modern society.Fanarts by PhantomRinFollow me on Instagram 🙂