4 stars for a very Russian story but a universally appealing book which demonstrates that the power of imagination has no boundaries, and much can be achieved through literature as the author unleashes a stinging satire on Russian life at the time of Stalin, but with humour perfectly woven into a very profound story.There have been many reviews of this book and a wide range of opinions as once again we are presented with a very unique novel that draws us into the world of magical realism that forces us to think and interpret what the author was actually conveying as he wrote this ingenious book. The reader must suspend disbelief, read between the lines, and embrace the many themes but most of all this book will require your undivided attention. A complex novel sometimes confusing but oh so clever.Unique, incredibly accomplished, and strongly evocative - both macabre and hilarious, dark yet enlightening, and magical but with very real themes.The Plot The Master and Margarita has two main time periods; Jerusalem at the time of Pontius Pilate during the trial and subsequent death of Christ and in Moscow in the 1930s, where Satan first appears at Patriarche’s ponds as Professor Woland. Whilst the two men (part of the Moscow elite) discuss Ivan’s writings and the possibility that Jesus did not exist, Woland appears accompanied by Behemoth, a large black cat that walks on his back legs; Hella, a female vampire; and Azazello, a hitman. Even more mysterious, the strange visitor informs the men that he was there the time of Jesus’ trial and goes on to make a prophecy that Berlioz will be decapitated before the day is out. Meanwhile Bezdomny’s hysteria when relaying the days events, and demise of his learned colleague, see him incarcerated in a mental institution for the mentally insane, despite being a poet and writer which only adds to the suspicion surrounding him.Part two introduces Margarita, the Master's mistress, who refuses to give up hope for her lover. It is this love story that features heavily in the second half with the adoring Margarita committing to the devils wishes to have her beloved ‘Master’ freed and so willingly succumbs to his power.All the layers and multiple threads start of converge in this second half and what can sometimes feel like random and bizarre events turn out to be quite poignant and incredibly symbolic.Review and Comments This has been described as a masterpiece, a literary giant, but for me this book stands out for its uniqueness in revealing the injustices in a Stalinist Russian and let’s the reader witness the destruction of an open and free society, not through political rantings but through magical realism that exposes censorship, absurdness, and cowardice through humour.So why the 4 stars? I didn’t really connect with the story of Pilate and the last days of Christ. Whilst I understand what the author was trying to achieve this didn’t work for me personally. Plus, I enjoyed the second half of the book more when we got to Magrarita who the book takes its title from. Whilst not a criticism, I paused reading and did some research to reacquaint myself with Stalin’s Russia to understand the social, political, and religious critique at that time, and it was only then that I would say I fully appreciated the brilliance of this novel and for all it represented.Despite not enjoying all aspects of the book, this is still a very worthy 4 stars; a true work of art and a feast for the senses and the mind. The story is highly imaginative not just with the story but how the story was told. The vivid descriptions of the times, place, people, and emotions was superb, the use of magical realism, humour, and irony to expose the blind acceptance of people in a Stalinist Russia was also very clever, poignant, and relevant - even today. From the ridiculous to the sublime and the magical to the farcical the author goes to the extreme in painting a surreal picture of a political system that prohibits people from speaking out, and in doing so we experience the mix of good and evil, courage and cowardice, and intellectual curiosity curtailed within a rigid system - and herein lies the beauty of this book. A book that is the definition of magical realism. A book that pushed all the boundaries at the time, and above all a wonderfully unique book that holds the bar high for originality.Food for the mind, brilliant imagery, superb storytelling, and great satisfaction for this reader - And to one of my favourite quotes.“What would your good be doing if there were no evil, and what would the earth look like if shadows disappeared from it? “