In a Moscow public garden, a writer and a poet discuss religion: Did Jesus exist? While the writer tries to impose his vision of things on the poet, a third character suddenly appears as a movement of the air. He joins in the conversation of the two men, says to be a professor of black magic visiting Moscow for a series of consultations, and begins to tell a strange story about Pontius Pilate.This stranger is, in fact, the Devil. It predicts the writer's death and his stay in the psychiatric hospital of the poet. However, when he leaves the public garden, Berlioz, the writer, dies precisely in the manner described by the Devil.Begun in 1928 by Bulgakov, "The Master and Margarita" was not completed until 1940, shortly before the author's death. And it was not until 1966 that it was finally published in the USSR, cut by nearly 80 pages by censorship ...Therefore, this magnificent novel had not immediately recognized for its actual value. And yet, what a masterpiece! A profusion of sets and characters, different plots from one chapter to another but invariably intertwined, makes this a magnificent fresco, colorful and still in motion, a bit like a crazy carousel, launched in endless and faster and faster turns.There are three stories organized around the character of the Devil, who in Bulgakov's work is called Woland. First, we witness the drama in which the Devil's arrival and his troop plunge into Moscow. And what a drama! The Muscovite militia gives the impression of running in all directions to fight against the strange events which manifest themselves in the four corners of the city:a) strange disappearancesb) theft of individual pieces of corpsesc) embezzlementd) women walking around naked ( while Woland has just offered them dresses of great couturiers)e) counterfeit moneyThe whole city is plunged into perplexity in front of the almost supernatural phenomena in Moscow, usually so peaceful.Then we get to know the Master and his story, which forms the second story within the "Master and Margarita." Through the unfortunate Ivan, the poet gone mad and locked in a psychiatric establishment, we meet this famous Master. He is also a hospital resident and tells Ivan what made him angry. This Master is in love with Marguerite, a beautiful young woman who encouraged him to continue the novel he wrote when they met (because the Master is a writer) and deals with Pontius Pilate.And this famous historical figure, the procurator of Judea at the time of Jesus' crucifixion, forms the third story of the novel. We are thus following in Pilate's footsteps from the moment he meets Jesus, thanks to Woland's account, which speaks of this historic moment to Berlioz and Ivan, and then to the Master's manuscript.These three novels contain references and anecdotes about the USSR of Bulgakov's time. And the author is not kind to his country: more than once, he launches himself into hilarious scenes, which give the impression that he is trying to ridicule the established order. But, unfortunately, and fortunately for us, it is precisely this rather cruel humor of Bulgakov which, mixed with the many twists and turns of the story, make The Master and Margarita an absolute delight!