“You’re not waiting for her resurrection; you’ve made yourself her mausoleum.”So What’s It About?Harrowhark Nonagesimus, last necromancer of the Ninth House, has been drafted by her Emperor to fight an unwinnable war. Side-by-side with a detested rival, Harrow must perfect her skills and become an angel of undeath — but her health is failing, her sword makes her nauseous, and even her mind is threatening to betray her.Sealed in the gothic gloom of the Emperor’s Mithraeum with three unfriendly teachers, hunted by the mad ghost of a murdered planet, Harrow must confront two unwelcome questions: is somebody trying to kill her? And if they succeeded, would the universe be better off?What I ThoughtWelcome to a not-so-brilliant hot mess of a review for a brilliant hot mess of a book! I have a kind of tangle of thoughts in my head about this book and I’m going to do my best to express them…we’ll see how it goes. In short, this book is absolutely wild and I’ve never read anything like it before – even Gideon the Ninth was vastly different. I have a lot of respect for a creator who continually defies expectations by constantly trying new things. Harrow is a hilarious, baroque, oppressive and wonderfully weird puzzle of a book and I was glad to simply sit back and be along for the ride. I’ve rarely read a book that’s dripping so much unique character and atmosphere. I’ll also add that Muir has a way with words that is uniquely her own and is a delight to read.One of my complaints about Gideon was that we knew so little about the world, and I’m glad to say that Harrow expands upon this part of the story in a very satisfying and inventive way. We learn all kinds of interesting things necromancy, God’s history, Gideon’s and Harrow’s histories, the previous book’s villain and plenty beyond that to boot. I will say, however that I think one of my struggles with the previous book still stands as I still can’t keep any of the houses straight. I’m not sure if this is my fault as an inattentive reader or a result of Muir not providing enough information about each of the houses.I’d heard some readers say that each character was distinct no matter how much space they took up in the story but I am liable to disagree; I had a lot of trouble distinguishing and remembering several of the characters in the Canaan part of the story and I did not find any of them to be particularly interesting. This is one of this series’ conundrums for me, I think. I’m a massive Gideon fan but I can’t exactly say that I’m emotionally attached to any other character in this series other than Dulcinea. The vast majority feel either hastily sketched and caricature-y or deliberately unlikeable to me. There are some funny moments between characters but just as many are simply irritating to me, especially as the sniping and arguing and nastiness continues on and on.I will say that I certainly don’t think characters have to be likeable in order to carry a story as long as they are interesting, and if I’m on the fence about the rest I definitely think that Harrow herself is a fascinating character. She’s a mess of fear and sorrow and grief, genius and paranoia, hate and misery. In this book we really get to see the immense amount of pressure that she puts herself under, her guilt for the deaths that birthed her and the debilitating weight of her grief over the end of the first book. In short, I think her characterization is largely brilliant.There are a couple of aspects of her character development that seem to come rather out of the blue for me. It was hard to read about Harrow treating Ortus so horribly for the majority of the book and I love the moment where she recites his poetry with him during their confrontation with the Sleeper. Nevertheless, I don’t quite know how she gets from a place of disdaining everything about him to suddenly seeing his worth. And after spending a whole book doing literally everything in her power to avoid thinking about Gideon’s death I do feel like it kind of comes out of left field when she decides that she needs to face her grief head on and feel it. Of course both of these happen after she realizes that Canaan House is all in her mind and Canaan Harrow fuses with real world Harrow, but nevertheless I think this part of the story might have been more powerful to me if it had been more articulate about how real Harrow and Canaan Harrow fusing lead to both of those revelations within her. As it stands now, I understood intellectually why they happened but I didn't feel that the internal process was as clear and impactful as it could have been. I mentioned that this is something of a puzzle of a book with strange clues and hints and bizarre occurrences all throughout, and I really enjoyed the process of wondering what was happening and then finally having it all come together in the end. I’d heard some readers say (either in praise or complaint) that Harrow is something of a mindfuck and I’d agree with that statement. Twists and messy explanations abound and they’re all of the most amazingly creative variety. I also read lots of reviews where readers said that they still didn’t understand what was going on after everything was explained – that it was hopelessly and excessively convoluted- but I didn’t feel that way personally. I’m sure Muir will keep me on my toes in Alecto the Ninth (and maybe I’ll take this back later) but I feel like I have a solid enough understanding of what happened in the first two books now. I expect each reader’s mileage will vary on this front.I’ll also say that while I understand why the Canaan House section of the book was important it was easily my least favorite part because it was so incredibly repetitive. I happen to be a massive fan of second person narration and I thought Muir did a great job with it here, although the reveal that it was actually Gideon narrating, speaking to Harrow, did fall rather flat for me because the second person narration simply felt so unlike Gideon’s voice to me except for when changed towards the end when Muir needed to make it apparent that it was in fact Gideon narrating.I definitely respect the perspective that it's incredibly important that Muir is writing messy, disastrous queer girls in messy, disastrous queer relationships. However it *was* strange to me that the story (or Gideon, at least) went of out its (her) way to denounce Ianthe for preying upon Harrow’s vulnerabilities while never really satisfactorily addressing a similar level of cruelty or the unequal level of power in Harrow and Gideon’s relationship in the first book. The argument here could definitely be that this is just Gideon's perspective on the matter, of course. Whether it's also Muir's remains to be seen!Last and perhaps least of all I have to say that I just hate the memes. I’m sorry I’m sorry I’m sorry I just do!!!!!