“Why did you ascend to be a Lyctor?”“Ultimate power. And posters of my face.”Most writers try to chase trends. They rely on formulaic plots, popular tropes, and safe narrative choices, hoping to give the public exactly what they want.Tamsyn Muir is not one of those writers.It’s difficult to explain what makes Harrow the Ninth so extraordinary. If I had to sum it up in one sentence, I’d say that this book made me reconsider how stories work. It challenged me to a point where I seriously questioned my own sanity. If Gideon the Ninth was, as I often hear it described, a crazy book, its sequel dials the craziness up to a hundred; and what is most infuriating about it is that, somehow, it works. It shouldn’t! It should fail spectacularly, going down like a shuttle falling into deep space (ahem). And yet, reading this book was akin to looking at a cubist painting for the first time: utterly confusing, in equal parts puzzling and fascinating. The most notable difference being that while a portrait by Picasso may certainly impress you, but will hardly make you laugh, Harrow the Ninth is also genuinely funny and moving. Muir’s writing is simultaneously full of heart and incredibly self-aware, as if the author was poking fun at her own characters and terrible puns.This book has all the wrong ships done right, and all the right tropes done wrong; it’s raw, unflinching, and insanely creative. It takes everything you thought you knew after reading Gideon and turns it upside down, leaving you scratching you head and scrambling for clues.It’s a Christopher Nolan movie – possibly Memento, or maybe Inception - tossed into a pool of lame Millennial humor and sprinkled with rainbow confetti; a love letter to fanfiction, 2000s pop culture, and romance novels, written with the lyricism of a biblical psalm.It's also a book that is very frank about mental health, and the many ways trauma affects the way we perceive the world. I applaud how Muir portrayed Harrow's mental illness (which is based on the author's own condition), making it an integral part of the plot and delving deep into the consequences of grief and child abuse.Harrow the Ninth is a science fantasy masterpiece, and my favorite book of 2020.Now all I have to do is lay down in the Locked Tomb and hibernate until Alecto is released.