“Harrowhark, I gave you my whole life and you didn’t even want it.”This book made me claw at the walls of my enclosure.As Harrow the Ninth begins, Harrowhark and her cavalier Ortus have just become lyctors to the emperor. Unfortunately, they have also been notified they’re being chased by resurrection beasts, a type of revenant created when souls are taken from planets via thanergy; the first nine that God created are now hunting them. [There were nine and the emperor has killed five; he says three still exist. This discrepancy in numbers will, I’m sure, not be relevant later ever.] And meanwhile, the BOE (Blood of Eden) cult, who hate the nine houses, is also in hot pursuit. To top it all off, she lacks the powers she should have. Mercymorn, Augustine, and Ortus are growing increasingly unhelpful. Ianthe is acting even stranger than usual. And the Body has begun to speak again as a hallucination. What’s a girl to do? Well, if you’re Harrow, the most gremlin-esque woman in the world, the answer includes homoerotic behavior, second-person narration, evil soup [don’t ask but it’s around page 240], and a lot of really, really weird dreams. But listen. I think if you read Gideon and you are anything like me, you already loved Gideon, you feel crazy all the time, and you know you want to read this book immediately. So the rest of this review… will be for those of us who have already read this book and are just going a bit crazy over it. Like me. In a normal way. I will now move on to the spoiler section, including a great deal of speculation. THESE ARE ALL FULL OF SPOILERS. STOP READING THIS REVIEW NOW IF YOU DO NOT WANT THEM. ___________________________(A)THINGS THAT MAKE ME FEEL NORMAL ABOUT THIS BOOK▶“Because all I ever wanted you to do was eat me.”▷This is a line that makes me want to chew glass whole▷It might end up coming up in my English thesis and it would be relevant too because I am a normal person who writes about normal things▷I just had to take a break from writing this review because I felt so crazy just typing this line out▷I feel normal about Harrow thee Ninth which is why I made a playlist about her because she makes me feel so normal▶“But when she was scared, she was a child again, and she was more scared of being a child again than anything else in her life.” ▷and if I said kinnie moment what would you do then? what would you do ▶“You were so afraid she might touch you. You were so afraid anyone might touch you. You would always been afraid of anyone touching you, and had not known your longing flinch was so obvious to those who tried it.”▷Mercymorn and Augustine are the worst (honorific) (loving) (full of mourning) ▷First of all I think having a threesome with God (page 281 in my hardcover) is funny bitch behavior▶“I will let you know now that the plan for my funeral is in my top drawer, and I’ve got it down to a minute by minute framework, and it’s only 24 minutes, and it’s just lovely.” ▷Mercymorn was funny for that and I’m obsessed with her▷I have a friend who's like, deeply obsessed with Augustine and he's not in the right for it but he IS funny for it▷Gideon and Ianthe interacting is funny as hell I love it▶“Get a grip. Don’t look at her blood, or lick her bones, or do any of the shit necromancers lie and say they don’t do the moment two of them get nasty.” “What can I say. I love a little gall on gall.” “Reverse everything I just told you. Let’s get married.”▷Harrow being Ho calling in (page 332 in my hardcover) is also funny as hell▷Ianthe’s arc with her arm was so fantastic▷She is fucking crazy but she is free <3 ▷The Matthias Nonius v the sleeper battle where they both speak entirely in tongues was funny also▷I miss Camilla. I think it is funny of her to be with Blood of Eden. ▷Y’all read As Yet Unsent? Corona and Judith Deuteros make me normal also▷Anyway, as we all know Gideon and Harrow make me feel extremely normal all the time, I think about them and they don’t make me crazy or anything like that▶“Ohhhh, Gideon, I was so dumb to think a tub of ancient freezer meat was my girlfriend. Please show me how to do a press up. Also, I’m very obviously attracted to y- no, damn it, this is just sad. This is garbage.”▶“His calm agreement made her all the more furious. She did not examine why.”▷I genuinely am going crazy over this line. Harrow just wants to be fighting with Gideon :( I love gay people(B)PLOT SPECULATION THAT WILL INSTANTLY BE PROVEN WRONGThings We Know▷AL/Annabel Lee/Alecto was resurrected, evil, and is now in the locked tomb, except also not because she and the Emperor had attained Perfect Lyctorhood. Ianthe sacrificed Augustine to save God. Pyrhha was inside Gideon the First the whole time, and now that bitch is dead but she’s fine. Also, Harrow is now asleep in her silly little coffin. [Nona] whose identity we do not know is somewhere. ▷This meme actually made me remember how this worked better not gonna lie▷The BOE (Blood of Eden) cult who hate the nine houses, used to be run by Cytherea, who has been a revenant for twenty years??▷Gideon (Ortus) and Cytherea planned to kill their Lyctor’s baby, Gideon, to start a thanergy cascade in order to open the Locked Tomb. But the baby wasn’t actually Gideon’s, it was God’s. ▷The Locked Tomb Body is maybe the one to have resurrected Gideon in Harrow’s body (??)▷Also, just because I had to google this, necromancers turn thalergy (life magic) into thanergy (death magic)Things To Speculate On▷I have a long running theory that one of the characters is going to be the last revenant beast, because there's that one line in Harrow where they mention there are nine, five killed, and three left, which is obviously some Faulty math. I think John. I think this would compel me so I want it to be true. it could also be like, Cytherea, as there’s a note at one point that she was a revenant for twenty years which just made me go ????▷Anastasia, the one who almost got Perfect Lyctorhood, will probably also be relevant▷Here is some cool and sexy little speculation but anyway basically with no evidence I think Nona is Anastasia and Anastasia is also the body. ▷Also I think Alecto will be AlectoGideonbod [as the post would put it]. Again no evidence just vibes and I don't remember why I so firmly believed this four months ago there was probably evidence at the time▷idk my brain is soup [not the evil kind] so I will just leave this for now but go speculate about women possessing each other in the gay way in the comments I really want to know what people think. your thoughts on the crazy people? tell me about themBlog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | About |