No one does it quite like Muir."I could protect you, if you'd only ask me to.""I would rather have my tendons peeled from my body, one by one, and flossed to shreds over my broken bones. I would rather be flayed alive and wrapped in salt. I would rather have my own digestive acid dripped into my eyes.""So what I'm hearing is.. maybe."And by that I mean no one confuses me so utterly, for so long, in such devastating ways, only to give me exactly what I want, and then completely messes with my mind, all over again, by the final pages of the book."What the fuck is going on?" <– what a moodLike, what, even is that? Huh? Seriously? How dare."You're certain that [spoiler] tried to kill Harrow?""Yeah.""But that doesn't– why would she–?""Do not fucking ask me for information. I could not be more lost right now."In a scarily similar recreation of my reading experience with GIDEON THE NINTH, this book took me forever to get through because of slumps, work, life, the world, etc. Also because this book is over five hundred pages of who even fucking knows. Truly, I had no idea what was happening because while I understood the words I was reading, and there were familiar characters and faces, even some familiar-ish events.. nothing made sense. I was confounded, confused, and having a crazy good time anyway. This author has skills, I tell you. No one else could put me through this nonsense and have me asking for more."Stay here.""Get fucked. I absolutely did not become the eighth saint to serve the King Undying so [spoiler] could play hero for me.""Why did you ascend to be Lyctor?""Ultimate power — and posters of my face."All I can say is : don't go in expecting to understand anything. Possibly ever. Because what little I thought I had eventually grasped by the end of book one, was just, poof, gone, by the start of this. And then what I thought I had pieced back together just before this concluded? Obliterated. Elle oh elle."She wants the D. [..] The D stands for dead."But speaking of that, I laughed, oh how I laughed. Some parts were so outrageous I couldn't believe it. It was weird, it was whacky, it was wonderful. I want more. Because here we are again where I have been devastated with how this second book has concluded and I.. what.. but.. I..I was not following all of this, because necromantic theory is a lot of hot bullshit even when I'm not busy having Complex Emotions.Yeah, I need book three, like, yesterday.4.5 stars** I received an ARC from the publisher (thank you!) in exchange for an honest review. **---This review can also be found at A Take From Two Cities.--------WHO DO I HAVE TO BONE TO GET THIS(is it bad that I laughed at my own bone joke wait don't answer this question)