To sum up: it’s a lovely migraine of a book. “I was not following all of this, because necromantic theory is a lot of hot bullshit even when I'm not busy having Complex Emotions.”If you thought Gideon the Ninth was a bit bonkers, do I have a surprise for you. Enter Harrow the Ninth that makes “Gideon” seem like the easiest and most straightforward story there ever was. “Harrow” is so deliberately confusing, frustrating and over-the-top that I had to reach into my brain and forcibly shut off the part of it that’s responsible for logically trying to figure out what’s going on, instead just going along with a weird slightly insane ride where, like in a haunted funhouse madhouse nothing is what is seems and what it should be. I usually hate books that force me to do that. But with Harrow the Ninth it was ultimately worth it. “I could protect you, if you’d only ask me to,” said Ianthe the First. A tepid trickle of sweat ran down your ribs. “I would rather have my tendons peeled from my body, one by one, and flossed to shreds over my broken bones,” you said. “I would rather be flayed alive and wrapped in salt. I would rather have my own digestive acid dripped into my eyes.” “So what I’m hearing is … maybe,” said Ianthe. Our weirdo fanatical necromancer Harrowhark Nonagesimus (strange and creepy even by the murky standards of spacefaring necromancer society built on skeleton labor and bone magic and swordplay) has supposedly ascended to the coveted Lyctorhood at the terrible cost of a sacrifice of the only (living) person she ever cared for, becoming the superpowered magical knight to the Necrolord Prime, the Undying Emperor for the last 10,000 years. Or so it should have been. In fact, everything seems terribly and confusingly wrong. The powers are not what they are supposed to be, the memories are not what we know happened, the madness and insane confusion rule, and God seems to go by the name of John. Oh, also there’s a dead body ghost haunting you and a corpse that refuses to stay dead. And half of it is in second-person narration. And it refuses to make sense for two thirds of the story. Oh, and the time jumps, lets not forget that. And what I can only call reality jumps as well, in addition to time jumps. Everything is just so *wrong*. And Harrowhark Nonagesimus seems to really be losing it.  “But Harrowhark—Harrow, who was two hundred dead children; Harrow, who loved something that had not been alive for ten thousand years—Harrowhark Nonagesimus had always so badly wanted to live. She had cost too much to die.”Tamsyn Muir could have stuck with the snappy juvenile-ish snark that was both the best and the worst bit of Gideon the Ninth, the one that made me both entertained and a bit tired from all the eye-rolling. It would have been fun and familiar. But instead she throws us into the confused jumble of Harrow’s possibly insane and very much haunted mind without a lifeboat. It’s sink or swim narration, so grab the nearest piece of flotsam and stay adrift.“In the real world, I have been fatally stabbed. The place that holds my body is about to be overrun by thanergetic monsters created by a galactic revenant. I am, put bluntly, on the verge of death. My soul is under siege, and I overwrote my real memories with a ghost-filled pocket dimension, which has now apparently been co-opted by some kind of poltergeist. From what I can tell I am stuck in here. I cannot get out. And I am about to die—I may even be dead already—which will render this all somewhat moot.”Under all the craziness this is a book about loss and grief. It may be hidden and masked and avoided, but it’s constantly there, just underneath the surface, sharp and relentless. Harrow is grieving, even if she refuses to understand it. And she feels tremendous guilt. And let’s not forget the haunted bit either. She’s struggling to survive — all while around her the entire world is in danger, and dead planet revenants are threatening the fabric of existence, and the spaceship/boneyard can only protect them for so long, and while the whole Lyctorship has gone terribly wrong, and each chapter counts down to the Emperor’s murder.And necromancers still have to make soup. That’s not a joke.The clues to what is going on are scattered everywhere. You know those are all clues but putting them together is hard, and for the two thirds of the story you’d do better if you just collect them in your mind and let them sit there and wait until Muir comes to the part where answers start. It’s frustrating but also fun. Some of them are easy, some seem to come out of the left field, but they are all rewarding. There’s a cringeworthy immortal heretical threesome that made me (and Harrow) flee in terrified embarrassment. There are planetary homicides. There are poignant ruminations on very messed up childhoods full of cruelty and neglect. There are objectively terrible pop-culture jokes — and I am certain that Muir makes them glaringly obviously bad on purpose, as a self-aware mockery in this case. There are loving and horrifying descriptions of bones and viscera that would fascinate anatomists and graverobbers alike. Those who are dead make appearances (since when has death stopped anyone in a society of necromancers???) and some of those make me squeal with happiness, and you really should brush up on Gideon the Ninth plot prior to starting this book because otherwise it won’t be nearly as much fun."Do not fucking ask me for information. I could not be more lost right now."Tamsyn Muir has created characters that are both immensely unlikable (except Gideon, (but not Gideon “Prime”). Gideon is awesome and I love her dearly, the ball of red-haired juvenile snark she is) and yet in the same breath real and complicated and worth rooting for. Morally grey and multifaceted is apparently easy for Muir to create. Kudos are in order. And there are enough power struggles and complex motivations to last a lifetime or two, necromantically speaking. “Memory hit Harrowhark Nonagesimus with the inexorable gravity of a satellite sucked from orbit, flinging itself to die on the surface of its bounden planet; the world hit her like a fall.” I think it took guts for Muir to flip the switch from inhabiting Gideon’s mind — fun, irreverent, sarcastic, snarky, and bristling with energy — to Harrow’s fanatical, obsessive, paranoid, glum, dark, confused, claustrophobic and for all intents and purposes insane mind. Taking the readers out of established comfort zone and plunging them into the new cold uncharted waters is a string and ballsy move, and after the initial shock I embraced it with all my heart. But if you missed the Gideon-style narration, don’t despair. You’ll get some of that, eventually. It’s wickedly powerful, once you let it take your brain over. Or maybe it’s just crazy talking. Who knows?  “Is that the truth, or the truth you tell yourself?” asked Augustine. “What is the difference?” said God.It’s cryptic, it’s fascinating, it’s frustrating, and it’s fun. If you hated Gideon the Ninth, you’ll hate this one. If you loved Gideon the Ninth, you still may hate this one. It’s prickly and often annoying and makes you really work for it. It’s like a migraine in the book form that eventually unfolds into a beautiful creation. I loved it. And I certainly will be queueing up to see how this bonkers and awesome story wraps up.“I think the main thing I should have said was, You sawed open your skull rather than be beholden to someone. You turned your brain into soup to escape anything less than 100 percent freedom. You put me in a box and buried me rather than give up your own goddamned agenda. Harrowhark, I gave you my whole life and you didn’t even want it.”4.5 bone shards. Or stars. Whatever.————My review of Gideon the Ninth is here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...———————My Hugo and Nebula Awards Reading Project 2021: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...