Bleeding Skies… 5 Stars!”It was never one. It was always three. The Blood Shrike is the first. Laia of Serra, the second And The Soul Catcher is the last. The Mother watches over them all, If one fails, they all fail. If one dies, they all die…”I think the best way to start this is say about the previous books maybe and how I grew to love this series and how much it means to me. A few years ago my friend Fathima said to me, I think we should Buddy Read something called An Ember in the Ashes, I had no idea what it was about, I read the synopsis and was like sure, yeah okay I’ll give it a go, from there I have read the series five times, making it a new all time favourite.Going into this, I was painfully nervous, it was my most anticipated read for the past two years. I’ve been saying what I thought was going to happen, I legit laid it all out, spoke to my friends and I was like this is how I think it’s going to end, I was wrong, in fact the whole book I was wrong because what I thought was going to happen like basic plot was just such a miss (but obviously I’m very glad).This book keeps you on the edge the whole way throughout, it was jam-packed and not a dull moment. I have to say my heart rate was at a sky high for MULTIPLE reasons, and when I say nobody is safe, I mean nobody is safe. If you go into this thinking nothing bad is going to happen, I cannot stress this enough that it is a whirlwind of emotions. While I’m on the topic, I literally cried on and off for about 120+ pages, I cried for FOUR hours, once I started it was just none stop. The amount of times I screamed, and raged and shouted. (It was a lotttt)Characters“A gift from me to you…”"I have defied him and survived him again and again. He has tried to hurt me. But I will not allow myself to be hurt. He has tried to break me but I will not be dictated to by a man so afraid to fight the jinn that he must criticise a woman to make himself feel bigger.”Laia, I think when we look at Laia from Ember to now, it’s absolutely INSANE how much she has gone through, her journey and how her character has built up so much strength over time. When we first meet Laia she’s quite naive and she underestimates herself. I mean even now she still wavers a little bit, but she continues to defy the odds, she fights for what she wants and doesn’t give up even if it feels painfully hopeless. I loved the relationships she built up throughout the series and how people started to look up to her.I reach for the scims gingerly, as if they will burn my palms when I touch them. Instead, they slip into my grasp like they have been waiting for me.”I wish I could live a thousand lives so I could fall in love with you a thousand times"Elias will always be Elias. He cannot be The Soul Catcher, he just can’t! So… Elias Veturius, I have to say, I don’t think I’ve loved a character like him since Will Herondale so that is truly saying something here. I feel for Elias, he wanted his freedom, and because of love he ended up where he is. I think his dynamic in this book was super interesting. I’ve gone into it more in my spoiler section.”Emifal Firdaant,” I interrupt Harper, May death claim me first.This absolutely blows my mind when I say this, but when I first read Ember I genuinely could not stand Helene, because I actually think that Helene is probably my favourite character of the series. Helene really did go through hell and back in this series. She puts all of her faith in the Augurs and trusts what they say, but out of all of the characters Helene has had it the worst (that is saying something), she saw her whole family be murdered other than Livia, she then has to see Livia marry her family’s murderer and for him to abuse her. She is constantly belittled for being a woman and they think she doesn’t know what she’s doing. What I can say about Sky is that we see so many different sides to her, We see her vulnerable side, we see her being Auntie Shrike which I LOVED! Then we have the warrior Helene, like if I was in a fight I’d need Helene on my side because she’s such a bad ass! ”Laia of Serra. It is good to see you, my love.”Where to begin with The Nightbringer, he’s not a villain that I absolutely despise, as The Nightbringer I found him so interesting. Learning bits and pieces about his back story was truly gripping, and I hate to say this, but you can kind of see where all of his rage has come from. I think seeing into his mind and just how loved he is makes you feel certain things for him.”You are broken. But it is broken things that are the sharpest. The deadliest. It is broken things that are the most unexpected, and the most underestimated.”Once again, a character I didn’t initially like was Harper, this is technically valid because he literally tormented Helene to try and gain knowledge about Elias. HOWEVER he grows on you. I think after Reaper we were all desperate for some love for our beloved Blood Shrike, and Harper was the person we wanted for her! He’s always there, always ready to help no matter what.“You are lucky enough to love someone who loves you back. He is alive and breathing and in the same vicinity as you. By the skies, do something about it. For however long you have. For whatever time you get. Because if you don’t I swear that you’ll regret it. You’ll regret it for all your years.”Musa is such a lovable character, when things look super dire we have his cheeky little ways, always trying to lift peoples spirits! We see a very raw moment with Musa in this, and it just made me love him even more. I think it would of been super interesting to get more of a backstory, and seeing the things he can do I was super intrigued!“Have you forgotten that the Shrike is a woman Mettias?… Do not bore us with old prejudices. You are a better man than that.”Seeing Livia in this was just great, I think people tend to overestimate her, but she takes zero nonsense, there was a part I was like GURL. She shows so much love and support and there are some really good moments between Livia and Helene. To see her away from Marcus’s grip and actually thriving with people it made me super happy!”You are the strongest person here. The strongest in the camp. Stronger than me. *, the Blood Shrike, the Soul Catcher, Afya. You are the daughter of the Lioness. The Granddaughter of Nan and Pop. You are Lis’s sister and mine.”The last person I’m going to talk about here is Darin, I can’t even explain my thoughts about Darin because he’s just that brother figure! He’s been through it, captured, tortured, freed and then starts to rebuild his life. There’s just something so pure about Darin, the way he acts with Laia, and then his relationship with Elias. Darin takes no shit, people treat him differently because he’s a Scholar and he’s just like nope, and speaks up and defends himself.Thoughts and FeelingsI’m going to start off with some things that I think could of been involved more maybe?My first part is, I really really wish we’d of seen Keris a bit more, we only saw her in passing. Like she is the Bitch of Blackcliff she was the person in this series that I TRULY hated, like my hate for this character was driven into my bones, and I LOOOOOOVED how much I hated her. I get that we saw her because of Helene in other books, but I just missed her because I feel like she’s such a good character.The other thing once again… I really really missed Dex. He took SUCH a back role in this book which was kind of disappointing to see. It has been strongly suggested that he is gay throughout the books, but I don’t know, nothing was really done? It was just said/hinted at and I wish this had been more developed, because Dex has been with Helene and/or Elias since Ember, so it was a shame that he wasn’t really in it as much.Now the things I loved (there’s not going to be a lot here because I’m trying to keep it without spoilers)- I cannot express to you just how MUCH happens in this book- So many strong female characters, like it really does get me all in the feels with this because they are all SOOOO good!- It gets the heart going let me tell you that!- We FINALLY, FINALLY got answers, do you know how long I have waited to hear what Elias said to Laia, and we finally got it!- Even though this was a *heavy* book there were so many really lovely and funny moments- ALL of the sibling bonds, I think if you have a sibling you’ll be able to relate to them.- It really does start with a *bang*- Just how unexpected things were, like I genuinely had my mouth to the floor at some things that happened, I was just like WHAT IS HAPPENING- I low key loved seeing the Jinn as well! Like it was so interesting!- I loved certain characters fighting with each other, like I was screaminggggg- The “coming together”- Things/phrases are reiterated throughout from past books and what the Augurs have said, it’s kind of driven into you and like certain phrases that just make me feel happy but sad at the same time.- People who died in previous books aren’t just forgotten about, they’re spoken about and you can see the impact they’ve left on other characters, I like that they’re still remembered because they were part of the journey. I think to add to that, Laia also explicitly says that she loved Keenan and I like that she doesn’t pretend that it never happened because once again that was what was needed for the story. - Refusing to give up on people/situations- On the other side Running Away and Armour I am just laughing so much at the thought- Cain is my modern day hero hahahaha- New found friendships, I really loved Laia and Helene and then Helene and Musa, because this book is set a few months AFTER Reaper we weren’t able to see how it developed.- All of the little flashbacks from the last books, they were never actually told to us in the previous books (I think?) and it really helped to show some really good moments between the characters!- Scims and Armlet- Musa and his word vomit hahahaha- The Cabin reflecting the Caravans- Certain communicating- I’m just going to say it… this book was full of so much Sexual Tension, it was painfully but I loved every single minute of it. I said what I said.- Mangoes.- HE BROUGHT HER TEA WHEN YOU KNOW YOU KNOW- Mentioning of something/someone from the Graphic Novel, was like I know who that is!- The hair pin momeny, my heart couldn’t take how tender and sweet it was”A Scholar rebel and a Martial Blood Shrike are friends and the sky didn’t fall in. Whatever shall we do?”BEWARE these next comments are going to include spoilers I will say Spoiler over when it’s over, it will just be talking about certain characters, I will not be stating any big surprise *jaw to the floor oh my god moments* or any character deaths, it’s more about character interactions and things I expected to happen.SPOILERS START HERECan I just say, that I don’t think I’ve ever been so happy for characters to finally get together! FOUR BOOKS I have waited, and the fact that it was just so ahhhhh! I can’t get over it, and I don’t think I ever will it literally killed me off when reading them. I was like FINALLLLLLLY!My other spoiler mention is about Elias because I didn’t want to say anything earlier. So what I want to say is this: I really liked the process of him going from “Soul Catcher” back to Elias and the fact it wasn’t JUST Laia who helped him achieve this. It was the love of everyone who cared about him and when you could see the little glimpses and him being cheeky and carefree it made me so happy, like whenever I saw it I’d be like THERE HE IS! I find it so sad that people went off of Elias during Reaper because the whole point of it was that he kind of switched off his humanity so he could do his job as Soul Catcher, like don’t get me wrong I hateeeeed it with a passion, but it was pivotal to the story.”Thank you, Soul Catcher.”“Elias,” he says after a moment, the slightest bit of warmth entering those cold gray eyes. “From you I prefer Elias.”Special shout out to Elias and Helene fighting together as well, not necessarily a spoiler, but it just reminded me of Ember when they fought with each other side by side, thought it was a moment where I was like HANG ON!Some characters showing up… I was like BIIIIIIIIIIICTH! I mean I 100000% knew that one of them low key had to arrive just because but the other I was SO SO SO surprised!End of SpoilersHow do I even conclude this review, these books are literally ingrained in to me, like in every which way, I am so so so thankful to Sabaa for writing this series, because it genuinely means so much to me. I’ve made so many friends because of this book and got closer to other friends as well. For the final book in a series it exceeded all of my expectations, it’s absolutely heartbreaking and devastating, but I still loved every single moment of it. Loyal to the end.An Ember in the Ashes - 5 StarsA Torch Against the Night - 5 StarsA Reaper at the Gates - 5 StarsA Sky Beyond The Storm - 5 StarsA Thief Among The Trees - 5 Stars17.07.2021Once again I cried so much… this book to me is just so much pain, absolutely loved it!07.07.2022So. Much. PAIN.12.12.2020Shocking that I have my most anticipated read for the past two years 5 stars. Who’s of guessed?I am emotionally drained, I have cried for like 120 pages plus other parts. What a wave of emotions. I can say for now is that it was not what I expected and I loved it. I feel so sad saying goodbye to this series because it means so much to me.———04.12.20206 more days to go for me:1. Yes I’m still crying I’m not reading my most anticipated book for the last 2 years.2. Avoiding Spoilers like the plague (thank you everyone, like I could weep that I haven’t been spoilt)3. Ali is sending me photo updates of her reading it and I am crying with laughter (and envy obvs)4. I fell physically ill waiting for this, like it’s to the point I can’t read other things because I feel all consumed about this book and it’s not even here yet.5. I just want my characters to be happy and my Anxiety is reaching its peak.6. Can you imagine what it’s like when I actually read this?!————02.03.2020We have a title AND a cover and I feel so emotional. My favourite series will be coming to an end, I feel worried for all of the characters that I love.————-08.04.2020Here I am still hoping for the best, but expecting the worst (I am attached to these characters okay) and after seeing all of Sabaas updates I am so worried!