“You are broken. But it is broken things that are the sharpest. The deadliest. It is broken things that are the most unexpected, and the most underestimated”I did, indeed, need tissues. I don't think a book has made me cry this much. Ever. This was such a beautiful conclusion to such an amazing series! I couldn't wish for anything better. I am so sad that this was the last book, and I cannot believe that this series is over. We went through so many things with this characters, and their adventure and everything they suffer to get to this point is finally over. This review will probably be the first half non-spoilery and the other half full of spoilers, but don't worry if you haven't read this book yet, I'll warn you when I start going into spoilers. The plot was better than I expected. I was never bored and I was always saying in my mind one more chapter because I wanted to know what will happen next, I wanted to know how this book this series is going to end. And that end did not disappoint me. I was going through a rollercoaster of emotions in the last, I wanna say, fifty pages. The stakes where so high and I was so worried for the characters. I loved following this characters along their journey. I suffer along with them, I laughed along with them, I felt happy along with them. Whatever was happening I was experiencing it along with them. The cast of characters has been, since the beginning of this series, excellent. Helene is my favourite character, although I really did not like her in the first book, she warmed up to me in the sequels until I reliased she was my favourite character. I love Laia and Elias. I love Harper. Even the Nightbringer is a character I like. Sabaa Tahir created him, in such a way, that as much as you hate the way he is sometimes, you still undertand him, you still empathize with him. You empathize will all the characters in this book in the end and that shows how well written they are. It shows how much taught and emotions Sabba Tahir put in them so they would fell human, no matter if they are the heroes or the villains. In the end, this book was everything I wished for and more. Sabba Tahir, I admire your talent. I admire you for this masterpiece that you have created. Thank you! Now onto spoilers! *Spoilers Ahead* So I predicted Harper's death, although I'm not mad about this. Don't get me wrong, I'm sad that he died, but I'm not mad that I predicted it. Sabaa Tahir put some foreshadowing in the beginning and through out the book with all the Emifal Firdaant. From the moment it was mentioned to Helene, I was sure that either Harper or Livia will die. In the end both of them died. And I'm so heartbroken for Helene, she didn't deserve so much suffering, she deserved to be happy. At the end of the book, I didn't start crying when Harper died or when Darin died or when I thought Elias was going to die, as you might thing. The moment the tears started to roll down my face was when Mirra offered to take Elias place as the Soul Catcher. That's when I started bawling. And I continued to cry when Helene looked at Harper's body and I stopped when Helene was made Empress, but then I started crying again at the end of the chapter and continued to cry in the next chapter when Elias talked to Harper's and Darin's ghosts. Those scenes all broke my heart. I am so heartbroken because of the end, but at the same time so satisfied, if that makes sense. I feel like if Sabaa Tahir excluded Harper's death or Darin's the book wouldn't have been quite as good, it just wouldn't have been possible. Although I wish Laia and Helene wouldn't have gone through so much suffering, I do feel like those two deaths were necessary for this ending, it just had to be this way. I cannot believe that Sabaa actually made me care, although that might be too big of a word, about the Commandant. I don't think care is the right word, but I actually felt something positive towards her! That doesn't change how many horrible things she has done and the fact that I still hate her. Like she killed Harper, I would never forgive her for that, but still I understood why she became like that. Instead of what Laia and Helene did, instead of fighting all those feelings that came with suffering, she let them consume her, she let them guide her life. I think that's it for my review, I love this book with my whole hear. This is a favourite series of mine now and I will for sure read anything that Sabaa writes in the future. I'm so excited to see what she writes next!