Idk, just to give you an idea...#1 An Ember in the Ashes — 5 Stars#2 A Torch Against the Night — 4 Stars#3 A Reaper at the Gates — 3 Stars#4 A Sky Beyond the Storm — 2.5 StarsSo, you see it’s a long time coming.For the record, I’m NOT disappointed. I’m... resigned and mostly unbothered. It’s just one of those series that you’ve been following since the first book was published but you slowly grow unattached to because the story no longer appeals to you. I loved the first two books, but the third one threw me off by going to a direction I did not expect and not in a good way. I guess that kinda cushioned me from the disappointment of this book.There were a lot of details I didn’t remember from previous books, and the only characters I recognized were Laia, Elias, Helene, The Nightbringer, Harper, and Darin. Basically the big players. Since when did Laia become such a Mary Sue? I didn’t like that Elias’ narrative changed from him being a hot badass soldier to a sappy, mellow, angsty Soul Catcher. It felt like he was being singled out and became unimportant.I was excited about Helene falling in love with Harper mainly because I’m always down for anything romance, but after what happened (which I think was one of the most ridiculous jokes of the century) in this book, her romantic side story was unnecessary. Also, since when did she and Laia become such BFFs?! They hated each other pretty much the whole series. I mean, war and the end of the world bring things into perspective and all, but still!I used to like The Nightbringer the way I did The Darkling. He was one of those villains that you couldn’t help but root for and you were torn about killing or kissing. His backstory was interesting and heartbreaking, but I just... did... not... care... about him and everyone else in this book. I was along for the ride physically but not mentally. Reading but not really processing anything. That’s why my memory of this book is hazy.To be frank, I’m not even entirely sure how the villains got defeated. I wasn’t reading because I was sentimental this was the last installment in the series, but I was doing it just because. So I could be rid of it. Anyway, sorry this review is useless. Funny how I also felt this exact same way with my first book of the year in 2020. I hope it doesn’t become a thing where I read a disappointing book at the beginning of each year. That would suck.
(Read as an Audiobook)