What...happened?Spoiler-free:First things first, credit where credit is due. The thing this book, and the series in general, does well is the emotion. We've grown to care about these characters (some of them) and we see the horrible decisions they're forced to make and the consequences that come as a result.As for the magic and supernatural aspects of the world-building, I've always thought they seemed a little out of place and this book shows why. They are not, in any way, well-defined. I want to know the rules of the magic. Where does it come from and how does it work, but we don't get that. The magic is a constant, ever changing, plot device, there when it suits and missing when it doesn't.This series was so much better when it was just focused on fighting back against an evil empire and freeing the Scholar people and Darin. It was about the surprising cruelty and kindness of humans, not the supernatural.The ending is terrible and anti-climatic. The characterization, with the exception of Helene, is also lacking what we've come to expect.And now for more specific examples.Let's begin with Laia:Laia becomes more of a special snowflake, Mary Sue, Chosen One, type in this book. We discover there is an ancient being named Rehmat that's been living inside of her this whole time and only now awakens. Turns out, Rehmat is the wife of the Nightbringer and Queen of the Jinn (though it takes forever to learn this). Rehmat is what gives Laia the ability to turn invisible and in this book, she gains the ability to turn others invisible as well and communicate telepathically...because magic. This cheapens everything Laia has done and gone through up until this point because it turns out it wasn't only her doing it, but Rehmat. There is one scene where Laia needs to steal the scythe that the Nightbringer owns in order to use it to kill him. It's the one pictured on the cover. She succeeds and even has it in her hands, but after she uses it in self-defense to kill a jinn who is trying to kill her, her fingers lose all feeling and she drops the scythe right before Elias uses windwakling to whisk her away, leaving it behind. This is done for no other reason than plot. We can't have Laia obtaining this very important weapon so soon. That's fine, but there needs to be a realistic reason for her having failed to obtain it and her fingers going numb is not one of them. There's another scene in the book where Helene is on a mission to kill Grimarr, but she fails because her forces are overwhelmed by too many enemies. That is a realistic reason, unlike what happened with Laia.I was also frustrated by Laia spending so much time trying to remind Elias of his humanity. She thinks perhaps he might be able to help her find a way to kill the Nightbringer, but he knows nothing. The Nightbringer, we learn, is literally attempting to bring about Ragnarok and Laia is over here wasting time trying to get Elias to regain his humanity instead of finding a way to save the world. Worry about Elias later!Another thing I thought unrealistic about Laia's character in this book was her wallowing in self-pity over killing a jinn. Honestly, at this point, given everything the jinn have done, Laia would probably hate them, or at the very least, realize the death was necessary if unfortunate.She also acts uncharacteristically dumb in this book. During a raid on an enemy camp, she is supposed to use her invisibility to poison the food storage. She had this one job and she does everything except that. Instead, she sees some Scholar slaves and wants to free them, only for them to immediately be struck down and killed. Not wanting a young Scholar to die alone, she sits with him and drops her invisibility in the middle of a battle. He would not die alone if you were there, whether you were invisible or not! Characters have to make bad decisions sometimes, I understand, but again, make it realistic.Elias:I never have, and never will, care about the Soul Catcher subplot. I thought it was a bad decision when it was first introduced into the storyline and nothing in this book changed my mind. Elias spends the entire book as the Soul Catcher. The fact that he gave away his humanity and now feels nothing for Laia is a point of contention between them, but comes across feeling more like forced conflict. They are not at odds because of anything one of them did to the other. Every decision Elias makes at this point is because of Mauth's influence. It's just forced and needlessly drawn out.Helene:My favorite character and one of the toughest characters in fiction most likely. She's already had to go through a lot and this book is no exception. Her chapters were the only parts I enjoyed reading and I was happy that she became Empress at the end. I know a lot of people are going to be upset that Harper dies, but honestly, I'm glad. I could never get behind the Harper/Helene ship because Harper tortured her in book 3. Even though it was done unwillingly, you would never be able to separate the event from the person and any time Helene looked at him, she would be reminded of what he'd done to her. Not only that, but Harper would also be reminded of what he'd done to her. So the relationship doesn't work and was sort of doomed from the start.The Nightbringer:We get more chapters in his POV and somehow, I think it makes it worse. He is no longer the mysterious, menacing figure he was when we were first introduced to him. He is far more like a human and he would hate that comparison. He motivations become murky and he is made out to be some sort of sympathetic character, which I don't think he deserves, but he certainly is more deserving than another character the book tries to redeem and that is....Keris Veturia:Firstly, this woman has been a vicious thorn in the side of our main characters since book 1. Her death needed to be something epic and worthy of such a fierce opponent. Instead, she dies like a chump, at the hands of a character who should have been dead.And then, she gets a redeeming arc and a peaceful afterlife. If anyone didn't deserve a peaceful afterlife, it is Keris. Do not humanize her. She is not misunderstood. She is not redeemable. Not everyone is. Face it. Some people are just evil.She also does not, for some sudden reason, want to kill Elias, which makes no sense considering she already did it once, with poison. Why should she change her mind now?Mirra:Laia's mother, whom I had completely forgotten about, shows up at the last moment to kill Keris and save the day. Realistically, she would be dead. She claims that she played dead and the barbarians failed to check. As if they are that dumb. They would never have taken over Antium if they were THAT stupid. Also, let's be honest. The only reason Mirra is in this book and still alive is so that she can take Elias's place and free him from being Soul Catcher. Deus ex-machina.Rehmat:Her abilities and motivations make no sense. After her death, she made some sort of blood magic pact (?) with the Jaduna to seal her spirit in their descendants. But there are rules that come as part of her resurrection and restrict her. Clearly she didn't read the terms and conditions of her resurrection because why? One of the rules is that she is forbidden to speak about her time with the Nightbringer and reveal any information that may help the humans defeat him. Literally the only reason for this rule is because plot. It would be too easy otherwise. But it's completely stupid.The magic and plot: Again, nothing is defined and there are reveals made that the characters have no knowledge of. The Nightbringer is stealing the ghosts away from the Waiting Place (how exactly?) and channeling their suffering into something called the Sea of Suffering, which is apparently where the ghosts pain is supposed to be transferred to by the Soul Catcher in order to allow them to move on. The Nightbringer plans on opening a portal between the two worlds and unleashing the Sea of Suffering in order to wipe out literally all life. If it sounds stupid, that's because it is.We are not told how the jinn can steal the ghosts as they do and use their suffering. We are not told why Mauth, the god of DEATH, is weaker than the Nightbringer and cannot stop him. I guess because what would we need our main characters to save the world for, then? Speaking of Mauth, we learn that he created the Nightbringer. If he is the god of death, how can he possibly create life?The length of the book felt unnecessarily long and drawn out. The story wasn't going anywhere and it felt like reading the same scenes over and over again. There's a part of the story where Laia is searching for the Nightbringer's story, using Kehanni magic (which also is not defined at all). When she finally gets it, it tells her nothing she can use to kill him.The deaths: All secondary characters. The deaths felt cheap, thrown in for shock value. Helene loses not only Harper, but her sister, Livia as well. Keris's death, as I mentioned, is anticlimactic. Darin is killed by the Nightbringer, who doesn't even turn around to snap his neck. That one read like the cheapest of all.The ending:Anticlimactic. Who knew stopping Ragnarok was so easy? The Nightbringer succeeds in bringing the Sea of Suffering to the human world, but that's okay, because Rehmat stops him by being sympathetic and Laia helps convince him to stop this madness if she tells his story. Who knew he was so murderous just because he wanted his story told. And honestly if Rehmat hadn't imprisoned him here, she would have done NOTHING throughout the whole story. Her existence would have been pointless. As it is, it comes pretty close.I appreciated the fact that Helene vows never to marry or have children. Not every YA character needs a happily ever after ending with the person they were meant to be with. Not everyone in real life even finds that person in life, much less gets to spend time with them the way Helene did with Harper.To wrap all this mess up, it honestly feels like Tahir didn't know where she was going with this story when she wrote book 1. I remember when book 1 first came out that it was supposed to be a standalone or something and when we all read it, we were like "No way is this meant to be a standalone" and it wasn't. But it's hard to change something once it's been published and so you have to work with what you got. And even if Tahir intended to end up here in the last book, that's possibly even worse because then this was intentional. Either this book was a disaster by mistake or by design. It's still a disaster.How could someone who wrote An Ember in the Ashes have gotten this so wrong?This was the last book. It was supposed to wrap everything up and finally bring an end to the story we've all been following for so long. And yet, having read this book, I would go so far to say that it would have been better if this book had never been written at all. I would take not having an ending at all over the ending we were given.