“Emifal firdaant. May death claim me first.”
 ~ Rating- 2 stars ~ (Content/ Trigger Warnings)-Mention of some of these in the review-  *Spoiler alert for An Ember in the Ashes, A Torch Against the Night and A Reaper at the Gates* My original review for this was me just rambling about my feelings, and, let me tell you,  four months later and I am STILL mad at this book . So this review is also going to be a huge rant, I will just try to frame it in more coherent sentences. Hopefully it makes sense. (I am not following my review format, and unlike my usual reviews this has some very mild spoilers. All major spoilers are in tags.)This book was supposed to have this final battle. It was supposed to be the end to a wonderful series. It was supposed to be heartbreaking. It was supposed to make me  feel.  Did it?Yes. This book made me feel a lot of things: anger, fury, rage, disappointment and an impending urge to pretend this book never existed. I mean it.I am sad this series is over, *cries* but my God it was a horrible ending. What happened to this series? Why did it leave me so disappointed? Let us break this down.We have our main characters Laia, Elais (The Soul Catcher) and Helene (The Blood Shrike) and we get all of their POV's.The first issue I had with this was how the characters were portrayed.   Lia of Serra, the one who faced the Martials and watched her family die right in front of her eyes. The one who went to the rebels for support, and became a slave for The Commandment, tolerating each and every insult and every scar. The one who ran away, faking her death and freed her brother from prison. The one who became an inspiration for everyone, as she was brave, kind, and she had no one, but she was still strong.What happened to this Laia? She’s not there in this book.Laia became such a Mary Sue, special snowflake character. Every other page she gets some new powers, and she acted so reckless and stupid. Now, I was not a huge fan of Laia, but I never completely dreaded her POV. That was what happened here.Each time we were in her head I felt like knocking some sense into her. At one point, she leaves the fight they are in and cries over some random corpse. She has responsibilities in this book, but we do not see her actually fulfilling everything. Everyone acts like Laia is the best person in the whole world, and yes, she's been through a lot, but are you trying to tell me no one else has gone through a hard time?Laia is suddenly good at every single thing; she can fight like Helene and Elais (who have been training since they were kids), she can turn invisible (only when it is convenient, though), and she has an actual jinn living inside her who keeps giving her advice (which she doesn't follow).She is now besties with Helene, and they hated each other in the first three books. All I can say is, why? What happened to her character? The main reason I liked her character a bit was because she was a plain, ordinary girl who was still strong. This just ruined everything.Now, 
Elais
The Soul Catcher 
. I loved Elais in books 1 and 2, in book 3 - not so much. But I thought this book would rekindle my love for him. Did that happen? NO. I hated every single page we were in his POV. I wanted to skip his chapters all together. Why? Because his POV as The Soul Catcher is painfully boring.  It comprises of- “I love Laia. But I am The Soul Catcher, I should have no feelings. But I love Laia! NO, I am The Soul Catcher, I should not have feelings. BuT I lOvE Laia. No, I am the Soul Catcher, I should have no feelings. But I lOVE LAIA. No- I am the Soul Catcher- ”And yes, a few chapters of this- I can tolerate. More than that? I CANNOT.I was so upset by his Pov, that I had to put the book on hold for a few days. (whereas I read the rest of the series in a day or two) It made me very sad that his character got ruined. Helene  The Blood Shrike. I always adored Helene. She was my favorite of this franchise, and she is one of my favorite female characters of all time. Her POV's in this book were a blessing, and fortunately I actually enjoyed her parts. I know that in this book she is 'blushing' and acting a bit different from her cool, calculated manner, BUT I loved it. Because I love Helene. And I loved seeing the more emotional side to her, as I consider myself an emotional person, and I could relate to her more. I do understand why a lot of people did not like her POV though.That was about the characters. Let's talk about the plot.I don't know why, but this book felt like a drag. It was 500+ pages, and I still felt like nothing happened. If I had to summarize the plot, I would say Laia is busy making rash decisions and not listening to anyone, Elais is moping about his life, and my poor Helene is the one suffering. I think Helene has gone through too much, and in this book she should have gotten a break. I get it, this is war and there will be death and destruction and yada yada but why does Helene have to be the one who's tortured all the time?I know, I am biased as she is my favourite but I think she is underrated. She's gone through the most, yet everyone talks about how great Laia is, when Laia is doing... nothing? Honestly, there’s not much that happens in this book. There are about 4-5 major incidents I can think of, but otherwise the rest of it is just filler. Don’t even get me started on the final battle scene, because that was an utter mess, which I will talk about later.Now, the world building.The entire concept of the jinn was cool! I liked it. The execution- not so much.There are so many unanswered questions about the jinn. How did they even come to existence? How many jinn are there? What are all their abilities? How is it that Rehmat was able to live inside Laia? The world was unique for a YA book, but I think it had a lot more potential that was not delivered. It left me yearning for more, and that’s not good as this was the end of the series.And we never get an explanation as to how do Helene and Laia have powers in the first place? Which is odd, as now this series is over and there are still a dozen unanswered questions.Now let’s talk about the romance.I was never a huge shipper of Laia and Elais, BUT I love Helene and Harper. I had hoped that we would get some of their relationship, and we do, but it still wasn’t enough.Most of the romance is about Laia and Elais and how much they lOvE each other but I wanted more Harper- Helene content. And I didn’t get it, which left me shattered. And now let’s go over that mess of an ending, because seriously I read it twice to try and understand what it was but it still left me confused. (In spoiler tags)~ Helene and Keris have that final battle scene, but instead of Helene killing the Commandment like I wanted, MIRA COMES BACK TO LIFE.MIRA OF ALL PEOPLE.Let me tell you why this was a bad idea. Firstly, it is so plot convenient.Laia already gets a ‘happily ever after’ with Elais anyways, but to make this happen Mira was brought back so that she becomes the Soul Catcher and Elais is free. And then Laia can be happy. NO. I hated this. I hated it so much that I almost threw my device in frustration. (was reading the e-book) Shelva, the previous Soul Catcher had to wait thousands of years before she passed the role onto Ellais. And Mira can get it so easily? Just like that?Secondly, of all characters why was it Mira who came back to life? And why did Mira get a chance to kill Keris? I think it was unfair. I would have seriously preferred anyone to do it over Mira. So many people could have done it, Helene, Harper, Elais, or even Keris's father. I would have also been fine with Laia doing it. Because we see these characters actually have something against Keris. We see their pain and we feel it. But with Mira, we only know her backstory. We don’t actually witness the events. And that’s why I hated it so much.~Harper dying “Emifal Firdaant,' I say to him.'You've said that before. What does it mean?'I cannot quite look at him when I say it. 'May death claim me first.''Ah, no, my love.' He gathers me close. 'You cannot go first. I could not make sense of the world if you did.'With that, he closes his eyes, but I cannot sleep. I stare up at the peak of the tent and listen to the rain drum down on the canvas. Emifal Firdaant, I beg the skies. Emifal Firdaant.”
 HOW DARE HARPER DIE.I was so mad, I did not read the book for days. It was my petty way of revenge. I knew he would die, as it was foreshadowed enough, but why would you kill him off? How dare you do it? 😭💔 “You got there first my love, I envy you so, for how will I endure without you?”
 I felt his death was only for emotional impact, and yes I cried because of his death. Because Helene has been through too much already. She’s lost every single person she’s ever loved. And I hate how this was done to her. Again.But, what I hated even more was the fact that Helene doesn’t even try to bring Harper back. She doesn’t try to sing his song. She makes no effort. And the Helene I know and love would not have done that. She would have tried. It felt completely out of character that Helene doesn’t do this, and I was beyond frustrated about this. I will forever be bitter.~The maelstrom thingI don’t even know how to explain this, as I didn’t understand it myself. So apparently, some kind of huge storm shows up and everyone drowns in it? And then they come out of it unharmed? And the Nightbringer dies easily, just like that? And Laia saves the day?I DON’T KNOW OK. NOTHING WAS EXPLAINED.It was bad.Some other things that made me hate this book-~Helene’s sister dyingWhy on earth did she die? And yes, I felt so sad that she died. This leaves Helene completely alone to rule an empire she never wanted to rule, and raise a nephew (when she didn’t want to do that either). Why is her life so miserable? She deserved better. 😭~The whole Musa- Helene thingI pretend it didn’t happen. I’m not gonna buy it.~The whole Keris-Lovey thingAgain, I pretend this didn’t happen. I AM NOT GOING TO BELIEVE THAT KERIS DIES BECAUSE OF HER TRAGIC BACKSTORY (which was irrelevant for the first three books)I’m sure I missed something, because I mean it when I say this ending was a chaotic mess. I hate nothing more to say. I am so disappointed in this book, and I truly think if it wasn’t for this I would have loved this series a lot.  “You have suffered. You have created suffering. You have killed. But you have also paid. With your life, twice over now, and with your heart, with your mind. You have guided thousands of lost souls. You have saved thousands of lives. You have done good in this world. Which will define you? The good? Or the suffering?” 
  DISCLAIMER - All opinions on books I’ve read and reviewed are my own, and are with no intention to offend anyone. If you feel offended by my reviews, let me know how I can fix it. My ratings and reviews for other books in this series-An ember in the ashes- 3 starsA torch against the night- 3.25 starsA Reaper at the gates- 3 stars How I Rate-1 star- Hardly liked anything/ was disappointed2 star- Had potential but did not deliver/ was disappointed3 stars- Was ok but could have been better/ was average / Enjoyed a lot but something was missing4 stars- Loved a lot but something was missing5 stars- Loved it/ new favourite...................................... I drew some Helene Aquilla fanart. It’s in my photos as well-https://www.goodreads.com/photo/user/...Any feedback welcome, as I’m still new to drawing. :)....................................................................................................Previous reviewThis was disappointing. I don’t know what happened in this book. It was so long, and it felt like a drag. The plot was predictable for the most part and what just happened with the ending? I do not buy it. It makes no sense.  that Meera thing made no sense. You're telling me that she never died, came back, killed Keris easily and then became the Soul Catcher. How is that not plot convenient? Shelva (the previous soul catcher before Ellasis) had to wait 1000 or more years before she handed the role to Ellais, and Meera can get it so easily? Also what was that final battle. Everyone in the 'villans' died so easily and the 'heros' came out unharmed. I'm disappointed. Helene was always my favourite character and I was disappointed with how it ended for her.  so Laia can have her mother and Ellis but everyone Helene loves dies? She literally saw her whole family be killed right in front of her eyes and I know the same thing happens to Laia but at least she gets a happy ending. Helene loses her sister and Harper (I was so angry and sad he died ) in this book and then she's left to rule an Empire she never wanted to rule and raise her nephew. and what on earth was that thing with Musa? I'm not going to believe that at all. I didn’t ever care about Laia and Elias. Laia becomes such a Mary Sue character. When needed her powers work and when not convenient they don't. She also makes so many stupid decisions.  how did she defeat the Nighbringer so easily? and even if she did, she literally went into a sea or something. How did she come out of that without a scratch? Elias is constantly complaining about his feelings and his role as the Soul Catcher. He was annoying to read about.I only read this book for Helene and she is hands down one of the most interesting morally grey characters I’ve read!I am very confused with the world building if this world and the whole Jin concept isn’t explained properly. There were characters who deserved better.  what was that Rehmat thing? it came out of nowhere. Despite this, I didn't hate the book. I need to say that the whole idea of the Jin was very new and I’ve never seen anything like that in YA before. The Nightbringer was a good villain with a good backstory.  how did he die so easily??? The writing in this book is very good and I can tell that Sabaa has improved a lot as a writer! Everything about the writing was 4+ stars, but the ending ruined the whole book for me. If it wasn’t for that I think this series would have been one of my favourites.Overall, this was a well written book but I HATED the ending.Sorry that this is more like a rant than a review but I don’t know what to say.