Once I started to read this I couldn’t stop it took me two days to read it and it was good! Fairest by Gail Carson Levine is a Fiction book and is told in first person. Fairy Lucinda has done it again but instead of having a gift to obey like in Ella Enchanted this time it’s a magic mirror. Ever since Aza was left on her adoptive parents' doorstep as a baby, she's been a mystery. She is plain-looking, with large bones, pale white skin, ruby red lips, "a big sphere of a face and round button eyes." For all this, though, she makes up with a beautiful, even magical voice. In the kingdom of Ayortha, music and singing are prized among all other gifts, sometimes they sing for no reason which I didn’t get, and Aza has the most beautiful voice in her whole region. What Aza has that all other Ayorthaians don’t have, is the gift of "illusing," of throwing one's voice and mimicking the song or speech of almost any other person, which she invented by starting to hiccup. Growing up in a happy, caring family and helping to run the family's Featherbed Inn. Aza wants to be beautiful. Through a series of events, Aza is chosen to go with a duchess to the marriage of King Oscaro to a foreign princess, her quiet life will change forever. Shortly after Aza arrives, King Oscaro becomes injured ny getting hit by an iron ring, making his teenaged bride the ruler of Ayortha. When Queen Ivi becomes aware of Aza's power of illusing, she secretly tells Aza to use her voice when Ivi , who can't sing, must perform at the high-profile courtly Sings. Soon, Ivi, directed by some mysterious advisor lets her power of being Queen go to her head, as she abuses her crown and takes away many Ayorthaian rights and privileges. Anyway, Aza falls in love with the Prince Ijori and Prince Ijori falls in love with het too, not caring that she is ugly. I soon found out that the magic mirror made queen Ivi prettier but she was already pretty. At the end Queen Ivi is exiled from her crown and Prince Ijori and Aza get marriend and live happily ever after. The author’s purpose in this book was to send a message about the value of inner beauty and that it shouldn’t matter what somebody looks on the outside and also to entertain us in another Great book by Levine. This book is supposed to be like Snow White but more interesting. It’s also romantic which I like. I am a great Gail Carson Levine fan for her books. So you would already know that I like this book! I would recommend this book to anyone definitely because its just good if you have read Ella Enchanted you can see that these to books are great and interesting. Like a lot of fairy tale books I read I like then end because good always wins and they live happily ever after like in this book and almost in every other fairy tale book. I gave this book 5 out of 5 stars because once I started to read it I couldn’t stop, even at school in classes the teachers would tell me to put it up. It kept me entertained just like Ella Enchanted did.