Is there a book that I was more excited for coming out in the first half of 2022? Book of Night is definitely a top contender for that space in an admittedly very crowded field. stealing this gif from my Gallant review because it’s too perfectCharlie Hall is an (allegedly) retired con-artist and current bartender who’s trying to scrape by. She lives with her sister Posey and her boyfriend Vince, and really just wants to bide her time in relative obscurity. But once a thief, always a thief, and Charlie can’t seem to resist the urge to investigate when things start to go awry. Because there’s been a change in Charlie’s world over the past several decades. Gloamists, once designated to the shadows that they control, have reached a popular consciousness. It turns out people’s shadows have power, and gloamists aren’t the only ones looking to capitalize on this new dominion.As Charlie and those around her get sucked into schemes larger than they could imagine, she’s got to find a way to protect the people she cares about from the dark forces at work. Both new villains and ghosts from their past are looking to utilize Charlie for their own means, and she’s going to have to dig every skeleton out of every closet in order to unravel why.I’m staring at the two comps in the synopsis and am just kind of perplexed why they would pick those. Listen, I enjoyed The Night Circus, but I don’t see many similarities at all there. Black doesn’t write the same kind of descriptive, flowery prose as Morgenstern and there’s definitely not anything resembling a magical traveling circus in Book of Night?? I can see where maybe the Ninth House comparisons come from, but even though I also liked that book it was bloated in a way that this one is not. Book of Night feels like such a departure from what I’ve read of Holly Black before and yet still so distinctly her own. I’m going to cautiously say it reminds me of Sarah J. Maas’ pivot from fae-centered fantasy worlds into a grittier, urban fantasy environment in House of Earth and Blood. I mean this purely in subject matter and focus, not writing, as I think Maas and Black have covered similar sub-genres in the past and now seem to be walking a parallel path once again. But I’m not trying to scare off people who didn’t enjoy Crescent City but loved The Cruel Prince, this is still 100% a Holly Black book.That said, it’s going to be pretty different from The Folk of the Air trilogy, and not just because it’s about magical shadows that eat blood. Fans of the Cardan/Jude relationship probably won’t be satisfied by the romance in this book, although there is definitely potential for that type of adversarial dynamic if Black decides to do a sequel. I’m also still a little fuzzy on the distinctions between the four types of gloamists and what exactly the power hierarchy is, but that didn’t impede my enjoyment of the story overall. My best guess is that this is the start of a series. Either that or Black is a bit sadistic. While the story’s arc finishes resolutely by the end of Book of Night, she dangles an enticing set-up for a follow-up right as the dust is starting to settle. I can imagine some people grumbling about the way Black’s decided to leave her characters here, but that kind of seductively unsatisfying ending is my favorite way to leave a book, especially if you’re considering revisiting the story again in the future. Either way, I’m all in on Book of Night and any possible upcoming offshoots.**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!