✦ I am cursed. Every single one of my anticipated reads breaks my heart....."Book of Night", turned out to be a book I despise. What the f*ck was this! I can't believe it. I can't believe Holly Black actually wrote this piece of shit. "Book Of Night" was one of my most anticipated books of 2022. I ditched my studies to read it & I have exams in a few days (which I probably will *bomb*). So who's gonna take responsibility of it now? You, Charlatan?✦✩｡:*•.───── ❁ ❁ ─────.•*:｡✩✦"Love was a family religion, passed down to her when she'd been too young to protect herself from belief.""Book of Night" is a dark, twisted, atmospheric and high-stakes Adult Fantasy Romance book which is probably the first instalment of a new series. But it definitely can be read as a standalone. The story is set in an urban setting. It's also a heist story.We follow our main character Charlatan Hall aka Charlie, a low level con artist, who's just trying to make it through the day. When a figure from her past shows up in her life again, her life is thrown upside down. Charlie finds herself sucked into the schemes of others and past figures come to haunt her, she’ll have to do whatever it takes to protect the people she loves.“What makes you feel safe when you go to sleep at night? Being able to check and see that your secrets are still hidden.”↳ The writing: It was flat as hell. I have always been a fan of Holly Black's prose. Her writing is usually very exquisite, investing and accessible. I don't know what went wrong with this book. The writing was really really boring. It was hard grasp on the meanings of a number of paragraphs. The dialogues sounded cliche and well...stupid. I felt no compulsive need to turn the pages. But I still did as I didn't want to dnf it. ↳ The world building: The setting of "Book of Night" might be the only good part of it. The world Black constructed was so cool! In Charlie’s world, shadows can be altered—for entertainment and cosmetic preferences—but more importantly, to increase power and influence. I thought the idea was extremely fascinating. But the author once again fails to execute. We could have done better with less description and more showing. The magic system was not complicated but the explanations provided didn't really worked for me. I was confused the whole time reading this book. I'm still not sure I understood any of it.↳ The pacing: The pacing of Book of Night is very different from Holly Black's YA series. While those are fast paced, this book takes quite a long to start making sense. It takes its time to settle into a smooth pacing.  At times, I almost felt like reading two different books. The first half dragged a lot. The second half was better but not by much.↳ The characters: Now now now (rubs hands excitedly), it's time to talk about our great Charlatan. I'm not going to call her Charlie. Don't ask me why because I myself have no idea. So...Charlatan was an interesting character. I was super excited after meeting her because I thought she would be a older version if Jude. Nope, I was dead wrong. Charlatan was stupid, annoyingly and boring. She had some character traits of Kaz. But we all know the truth. Kaz Brekker is one and only. Whoever tries to copy him...fails miserably. So, Charlatan, go and DIE.Vincent fu*king  Remy annoying Red - was such a two dimensional character. How could Holly Black give us this irritating jerk after gifting us Cardan? It's so iniquitous.The cast of side characters were the dullest and un-memorable ones I have ever come across to. They were too many of them. Most of those characters were doing nothing but blocking space. None of them had any unique qualities that could help me to tell them apart. So, despite reading the whole book *attentively* ,I don't recall any of their names. ↳ The epilogue: The ending chapter was actually really good. It was abrupt but fascinating. If only the entire book was as good as the ending point! → So...my thoughts in a nutshell, I didn't enjoy a single moment of reading "Book of Night". It was almost unreadable. Won't recommend it to anyone. I would rather continue obsessing over Jude-Cardan. Thank you. But I don't want you Charlatan.