Well, this is a first. Two stars always felt too harsh to me, but I just couldn’t with this book. It all stems from one very OBVIOUS thing that is lacking; character depth. Who was Aileese—besides a Bone Crier/Siren—you ask? I HAVE NO IDEA. She was literally just some girl had to kill some guy to secure her role in her society of Bone Criers. No depth to her character at all. We got no backstory, no unique traits, no development, no nothing. Who was Basiten—besides a wanted thief who also wanted revenge on the Bone Criers—you ask? I HAVE NO IDEA. He was literally just some guy who had to kill some girl for revenge. No depth to his character at all. We got no backstory, no unique traits, no development, no nothing. They were both so surface level that it hurt. The one ATTEMPT made at character development was only present in Sabine; a side character who went from being entirely afraid of everything involving death, to setting traps to kill people. Even the development there wasn’t enough for me, however. She was told some very...random truths which made her seem so gullible. She easily changed her mind and decided that she needed to be better at killing (which was her entire purpose), and her immense fear of killing was just...sort of...gone. But that’s just it; because I could literally give two shits about them, I could give literally two shits about their story. Sure, Basiten was some guy out for revenge because his father was killed. Cool. Got it. Let’s go get revenge. But let us ALSO hear more about that. Let’s plunge into what led you here in more depth. Let’s discuss how it affected you growing up not having a father, let’s hear more about your struggles, how you became this wanted thief and had to do shameless things to get by. It was literally mentioned twice that he “lived a hard life” and never again. Like that’s all the backstory we get? Not cool. That makes Bastien just some random who I could care less about.Same with Ailesse. She had a mother who was harsh, a future she didn’t want. Sure, she mentioned that. Sure, her mother came off as a grade-a bitch, but like GIVE ME MORE. There wasn’t much history about the Bone Crier’s either. Not enough to keep my interest, anyway. So just like Basiten, Ailesse became some random girl I could care less about.The plot overall could have been flushed out better. The constant fighting became stale real fast for me. It felt messy. Everyone just screaming “no don’t kill her” “no don’t kill him” and the author just using convenient ways for everyone to survive each encounter. It was...well, annoying, and I just wanted the book to end. I know that there will be a sequel, but this first installment didn’t captivate me enough to even consider continuing. And I hate that I have to say that.