In this French-inspired world, Bone Criers are all female and have the job of ferrying spirits, using the bone flute, to Elara's Heavens or Tyrus's Underworld. They get their magic/enhanced abilities from the bones of animals. They wear the bones on them and they are called Grace Bones. Every Bone Crier should have 3 Grace Bones, except for the Matrone (leader) of the Bone Criers/Leurres, who should have 5.To prove their dedication to the gods, they have to kill their amouré (their fated lover). The Bone Crier and amouré will meet on the night of the Bone Crier's rite of passage. They lure their amouré to them by playing a song on the bone flute. The Bone Criers are basically Sirens that walk on land. They are given a choice to kill on the night of their rite of passage or stay with their amouré for exactly one year, in hopes of producing an heir, and then killing them. Ailesse is the daughter of the Matrone. She is eighteen and just got her third grace bone, meaning she is ready for her rite of passage and ready to become the next Matrone of the Leurres. She has no plans of living with her amouré for a year. Sabine is her best friend, but she doesn't want to be a Bone Crier or kill animals. Bastien is a wanted thief, whose father was killed by a Bone Crier when he was young. He wants revenge for his father and plans to kill another Bone Crier in exchange for his father's life. He is accompanied by his friends, Jules and Marcel, who are siblings. Their father also got killed by a Bone Crier. Together they plan to avenge their fathers’ deaths. The first thing I have to say is that I read this book because of the gorgeous cover. Next, I was disappointed by this book.This book was told in 3 first-person POVs. Which I hated because: 1. I don’t like first-person POV for more than two characters2. I kept getting confused between Ailesse and SabineI enjoyed the magic system, the mythology and folklore, and the world-building this story had. Despite being 480 pages, it was a really quick read (probably because I was skimming through 200 pages) . I didn't like the characters. I kind of liked Sabine and her character growth. They were very bland and boring. Another thing that was bland and boring was the plot. Only the first and last fourth of the book was interesting. The rest of the stuff in the middle was so boring and some scenes could have definitely been cut out. There were a couple of plot twists. I got the first one. The last one was probably the most interesting.Obviously, there's going to be an enemies-to-lovers romance/trope between Ailesse and Bastien. The romance was bland as well and I didn't like the way the romance was developed. It felt kind of forced. The thoughts and speech of the characters, especially Bastien, were boring as well. The only things I can remember him saying are "merde " and describing Ailesse with "damn [adjective]". Also, there was a love triangle (what a surprise). The ending was confusing, shocking, and it made me kind of upset. The sequel will probably be a mess, but I will obviously give it a try if the cover looks stunning.Blog | Instagram