4 enjoyable stars ****”You will die, Bone Crier. Because you are mine.”So this is the first YA fantasy I have read in a few months and I must say, I really enjoyed it (which I wasn’t expecting!). This book really piqued my interest with soul mates (but with murder/sacrifice), bone magic, and mythology. It was a great fast-paced read and I thoroughly enjoyed learning about the rituals etc., to become a Ferrier (someone who ferry’s the dead). This had a great friendship between two best friends; Ailesse and Sabine. It was great to see their internal thoughts of one another and how they compared themselves to each other. This also included an “enemies-to-lovers” romance which I am a sucker for too. I enjoyed seeing the scenes between Bastien and Ailesse- I much preferred the angst and hatred at the beginning though. Sabine was a character I definitely loved throughout the book- she just went from strength to strength- and would do anything for Ailesse and to get her back. I did have some issues with the book however, so not a full 5 stars from me. I found that the romance aspect between two of the characters shifted from hatred to love VERY fast, too quickly, without a natural progression or evolvement; so I didn’t enjoy that part. Also, a new character was introduced in the last 100 pages and I just found this last part of the book to be SUPER rushed- almost as if the author was clamouring to get the book finished. I’m not too sure if it’s because this story is told from 3 POV’s and so the author was trying to fit toomuch in? But I just felt certain things could’ve been developed and explained upon a lot more. I additionally wanted to learn more about Odiva (the matronne of the Bone Crier’s) and find out more about her history, as we have clues about her past but not a full picture. Maybe this will be developed upon in the next book?Overall a super fun read which held my attention, and other than those few things I wanted expanded upon more. I will be reading book 2 soon!