MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListWow! It's the end..... I know this series has been out for some time, but still. So Raisa is Queen and people are trying to tell her what to do, kill her, marry her off....blah blah blah. She's having none of that! Raisa and Han are still trying to find their place with each other. Hmmm... I can't give out spoiler so I can't mention that.. crap. Let's just say they want to be together still but it's a hot mess. Raisa is trying to incorporate the wizards and the magic users into the kingdom. She wants to have a kingdom where everyone gets along. Good luck with that, but she doesn't give up. AND that stupid Lord Bayar is still causing trouble and he is just evil, so damn evil. He should have been called the demon king! He does some really bad stuff in this book, but he gets his time and he gets it in a rather lovely way :-) Oh oh, there is this really cool part where Bayer gets put in his place. Its' a MILD SPOILER SO... 
"Excuse me?" Lord Bayar said, "What did you say?""I vote for Hanson Alister for High Wizard, to replace you," Gryphon said. "I believe that means he wins."
I love it, some other really cool stuff happens in that meeting but I will leave it to you to read. It's one of those happy dance, in your face jerk, kind of moments. :-) I liked Gryphon's character, we find out some stuff about him in the book, it's sad and eye opening as well. Poor guy. And I love Dancer even more in this book when I find out more about him. And there is Cat.. the list goes on, there are a few great people in the book. Anyhoo, not only are people trying to kill the Queen, they are trying to frame Han for all kinds of wizard deaths and putting things around that make him look like the one. And you know.. I never would have thunk who it turned out to be. 0_0We also get to find out the secrets of the Demon King. There is a whole bunch of stuff that opens up with that revelation. It was a "wait what?" moment for me. All I have left to say is that the four books in this series are awesome and if you have been thinking of reading them, just do it. 
The Gray Wolf Queens live on as wolves.
Freaking makes me tear up me being a wolf lover... the queens will always be there.......Last sentence in the book ↓Sometimes a dream is enough.I believe that with all my heart and soul!