Raisa is finally queen *offically crowned but queen of my heart forever* and she's doing good. Really good. 

“I have the life I want,” Raisa said. “Oh, I know it’s not perfect, and people are trying to kill me, and nobody in the queendom can get along, and we’ll likely be invaded soon, but other than that…”

She really is. Except for the whole....The wizards and clans continue to fight and blame the other, wizards treating them like slaves and clans refusing to make more metals&give the wizards more powerThe average folk are adjusting to a new queen who is young but murders are on the rise. The wizard counsel wants a queen easy to maneuver and the clans want a queen who will fight but only fight the wizards. War in the south is coming closer, all princes claiming to be king and willing to kill or enslave Raisa's people to make it true till suddenly! They're in the castle THEY ARE IN THE MOTHERFUCKING CASTLE PEOPLE!But Raisa takes all of this with her usual sass and ass-kicking abilities. 

“I just hope he doesn’t expect me to marry Kip,” Raisa said, shuddering. “I’d leap from the tower first.”Cat snickered, and that set Magret to laughing, and soon they were all in convulsions.“Even w-worse,” Cat cackled, blotting tears of mirth from her eyes. “Maybe he wants you to marry b-b-both of them.”“I’ll make you a rope, Your Majesty, so you can hang yourself,” Magret said.”

Han found out her true identity and doesn't trust her but cant stand to stay away. Magic school continues with thr wizard teacher thinks Han is on her side, the devious clans trying to control Han, the Demon King's spirit is trying to possess Han AND NOW HE IS BEING BLAMED FoR MURDERS. For fucks sake, can we give Han a break?While the first book is acknowledging a slow burn, try to read to the second to really see how the series really builds up its big plot, provides interesting character dynamics, and just a whole lotta sass. Because don't worry, he and Raisa are gonna do just fine 

“Finally, he knelt beside it. “I told you to stay!” he muttered. “Don’t you ever listen?”This was so ludicrous, the dog such an unexpected walk-on, that Raisa couldn’t help laughing, though her eyes were blurred with tears.“A dog? You’re a wanted man, accused of treason, and you brought a dog into this?” She shook her head. “Is that fair to the dog?”

 Definitely recommend this book/series! The characters are dynamic in that you are really able to relate to them and connect to them. You have to keep reading because you wanna see what they do next, not just to find out the ending. each book continues to build upon amazing layers of creative plots, dynamic characters, and hilarious lines.