“History is written by the victors. The truth is, the villains were less villainous, and the heroes less heroic, than you’ve been told.”...I'm crying happy tears. The Crimson Crown was such a fantastic conclusion, and it gave me everything I wanted in terms of a series finale: action, high stakes, political intrigue, war, love, and death. It's such a bittersweet feeling when you finish a fantastic series like this, and I'm so sad to see that it's over.I love the characters in this series with all my heart. They're flawed, capable, interesting, and incredibly endearing.Han is a badass, vulnerable ex-thief turned wizard who has completely stolen my heart. God, I love him so much. I just wanna wrap warm blankets around him and give him a hot mug of tea. He deserves the world and you can't tell me different. Sure, he makes mistakes and kept way too many secrets from his friends, but he's learned and grown so much since book one. I ADORE THEE, HANSON.Raisa is my QUEEN and I love her 
to death
. I really didn't like her in the beginning of this series, and now she's my favorite character. I swear, seeing her coming into her own and become the warrior Queen she was destined to be made me feel empowered, made 
me
 feel proud to be a woman. She's fierce, kind, fiesty, and I want to be her. I elect Raisa as Queen of the Planet. The side-characters are also wonderful. Fire Dancer is such a sweety and he's not just Han's best friend: he's a badass on his own. Cat was hilarious and fiery, and her and Dancer's relationship was the CUTEST. Night Bird was a compelling character, and she's grown a lot since book one as well. Amon is the captain of the Queen's Guard, and he's basically a person who looks like he'll kill you but he's actually a cinnamon roll. He deserves the world.Micah Bayer...yeah, I hated him. But I liked the fact that he was never really the villain of this story. Sure, his father Gavan is the absolute worst, but Chima never set him on a certain side. He walks the line between good and evil in an interesting way, and even though I personally wanted him to jump off a cliff, he was an interesting antagonist.The relationships tugged at my heart, and made me cry several times. The friendships were so damn sweet, and the romances were heart-pounding. I rooted for Han and Raisa's love story until the very end, and I toiled over the angst and miscommunication and tragedy. These two...they killed me.The plot in this book never dulled for me. Characters that I love were constantly put in positions of vulnerability and danger, and I was always on my toes. At one point, I was screaming at the book and shaking it because I needed to know what happened next. The way that Chima paralleled stories from the past with the present plot of The Crimson Crown was ingeniously heart-breaking, and it presented important truths: history is written by the victors, prejudice can go both ways, and those we love aren't perfect. All in all, I thought this was a fantastic conclusion. I can't praise this series enough; if you've read The Demon King and weren't that impressed by it, please read the second book. The books just get better and better, and The Crimson Crown is definitely my favorite book in the series. It's over. I want to cheer, and I also want to cry, and I'm just so overwhelmed. Now, on to The Shattered Realms series!