“So here's the truth - I love you. I love everything about you – the way you stick up for people even when it costs you. The way you keep trying to do the right thing even when you're not exactly sure what the right thing is. I love how you put words together. You're as skilled with words as any knife fighter with a blade. You can put an enemy down on his back, or you can raise people up so they find what's best in themselves. You've changed my life. You've given me the words I need to become whatever I want. I love how you talk to lytlings. You don't talk down to them. You respect them, and anybody can tell you're actually interested in what they have to say. I love the way you ride a horse – how you stick there like an upland thistle, whooping like a Demonai. I love the way you throw back your head and stomp your feet when you dance. I love how you go after what you want – whether it's kisses or a queendom. I love your skin, like copper dusted over with gold. And your eyes – they're the color of a forest lake shaded by evergreens. One of the secret places that only the Demonai know about. I love the scent of you – when you've been out in the fresh air, and that perfume you put behind your ears sometimes.Believe it or not, I even love your road smell – of sweat and horses and leather and wool.I want to breathe you in for the rest of my life.”*ALL THE BLOODY STARS IN THE SEVEN KINGDOMS*Wow guys, just wow. Words are not enough to describe how incredibly brilliant the ending of this series was! Everything about this books is just amazing and I'm SO happy with how things wrapped up! I know I said it in one of my previous reviews but Cinda Williams Chima's writing literally blows me away. I love how she managed to build and develop the story, slowly unfolding things through out the whole series. Seeing how everything came full circle at the end was honestly the most amazing thing ever and I'm still not over about everything that happened, not to mention that freaking epilogue *OMG IT WAS SO BEAUTIFUL I CANT EVEN* *cries*Even though the series it's over, I came to love all this wonderful characters and their stories so dearly much, I'm most definitely not planning on letting them go anytime soon! *cheers to Han and Raisa, the most epic badass couple in the entire world*❤️Seriously, if you guys haven't read this series yet, I HIGHLY recommend that you give it a try because it's absolutely FANTASTIC! So much love to one of my favorite series ever!5/5★★★★★