3.5-3.75Beka Cooper returns, this time as a Dog; however, she can't seem to manage to keep a partner due to her unquenchable thirst to hunt down Rats. She returns with that same drive that got her the nickname Terrier in the last book and none of the 4 partners she's been paired with can handle that. Every time she loses another partner she ends up back with Goodwin and Tunstall.When Beka loses her latest partner and ends up back with Tunstall and Goodwin things are stirring up in Tortall. There has been a sting of coles (counterfeit coins) being released into the economy, threatening a spike in prices for everything right before what is sure to be a tough winter due to a bad harvest year. All signs point to Port Caynn as the source and Beka along with Goodwin ship off to a new District to find the source of the coles.Pierce delivers another fast paced story all told from the journal entries of Beka Cooper. This book contains plenty of action, a new band of characters (all from Port Caynn) and a new mystery to sleuth out. I did miss the group that was established in the first book, they do all make appearances, but since this book is set in a different city a new cast of characters was introduced that I did not like as much.I this what really brought this book a little lower for me was the love interest for Beka. It didn't seem to fit into her character. She had been holding Rosto at arms length since book one, and all of a sudden another guy comes into the picture and right away she is head over heels for him.  I may also be salty because I really want her to end up with Rosto and you could tell right away Dale wasn't going to stick around once she left Port Caynn; whereas, Rosto has been there the entire time....he even took care of the guys who attacked her, Dale just bought her pretty things.  It didn't feel like it fit her character, it would have made more sense to have a slow burning relationship where she makes the male work for it. Other than the romance though the book was full of character and world development with a plot that kept you guessing through the entire book. False coins may not feel like a huge deal, but Pierce explains the negative ramifications on the entire empire should this continue. I finished this book in 3 days and I am so excited to continue on with book number 3. Pierce is definitely an author I recommend for anyone who loves strong female protagonists and fantasy settings.