(re-read on June 6, 2013, the occasion of this review)I read this through steadily and am going to read the third right away, but I'm still not as thrilled as I feel I really ought to be. Maybe I am just growing old and boring and hard-hearted, and I don't have the unquenchable nostalgia for Pierce's more recent books the way I do for the Lioness and Immortals quartets. *sad*My review of Terrier was short and trivial; I'm going to be more comprehensive with Bloodhound, but I'll save the analysis, if any, for my review of Mastiff. For this one, a list:+ Beka thinks of femininity (for herself) as a performance that serves a purpose. <3+ I like Pounce, but was pleased that in this book he wasn't present to help Beka through a lot of the plot. It's not that she didn't have a lot of other friendly and supernatural assistance, but Pounce feels like cheating sometimes.- I was a bit dissatisfied by the motives of the colemongers, once we found out. Beka thinks so much for most of the book about how awful the colemongering is and how difficult it is to imagine why anyone would do so much of it. To me this felt like set-up for a big, surprising conspiracy, maybe Beka's own Moriarty. But there's nothing really surprising about the truth. We already know that Pearl Skinner is unsubtle, greedy, powerful, and not at all far-thinking. I think Hanse's motive was meant to be a surprise, but since Beka doesn't really know Hanse, and his role is over by the time we learn his secret, I didn't care enough.- I find myself wishing for points of view other than Beka's. I mostly like the journal format, but it demands that Beka drive most of the plot that we read about. That would work better with a shorter or simpler story; there's so much going on in these books that I feel sympathetically overwhelmed to read about everything Beka gets up to. And a few bits of the existing plot might really work better from another character's perspective -- for instance Goodwin would have had a more interesting reaction to the revelation about Hanse I mentioned in the previous point. ...I would also like to see how this world looks to someone who doesn't think that working for the police is the best job ever.+/- Bloodhound has a trans* character! Who is awesome, but could probably have been written about better. I am going to use gender-neutral pronouns for Okha, because while Bekka consistently uses male pronouns, Okha hirself says that zie is a woman. (I found it a bit strange that Beka didn't start using female pronouns after learning this. Other people do use female pronouns for Okha, but Beka only sees them doing so at Okha's workplace, where zie wears very feminine clothing. I got the impression that Beka believes Okha's gender is Fraught with Secrecy.) This is another case where a non-Beka viewpoint might have been useful. Actually, Okha could have narrated all of the scenes at taverns and the Court of the Rogue, which are a good chunk of the book. Zie does help with the plot as it is, but in a slightly Magical Negro kind of way. (Was it really necessary for hir to give Beka advice about cosmetics?)+ I am always pleased to see a mystery or crime story about something other than murder! (Nothing wrong with a good murder plot, it's just that there are so many of them.) In this case it's counterfeiting. As a matter of principle I rank property crimes lower than violent crimes, but Pierce explains really thoroughly why this particular counterfeiting case is a problem for everybody, not just the rich.+ Achoo! What a good dog.