I'm not sure if Ms. Pierce is prescient or just more economically savvy than the rest of us, but this book was chillingly suitable for our times. The economic crisis in this book is caused by forgers -- colemongers, in her inimitable idiom -- rather than hotshot MBAs and back room financiers, but the general aura of panic and financial woe was dead on.If only a smart, savvy young cop could fix out problems as easily as Beka fixed Tortall's.My only complaint about the book is just that -- it was all solved rather quickly and easily. Beka and Goodwin did a brilliant job, but throughout the book, Ms. Pierce hints that there's an outside power working with Pearl to deliberately bring to chaos over a long, hard winter. I was all set to hear that some foreign country was planning a spring invasion. I was even looking forward to the next book, about keeping peace at home during wartime abroad. The idea that a man fired from the army would be that angry AND that thoughtfully destructive struck me as a reach. I wonder if Ms. Pierce didn't have something else planned and had to take a shortcut because the book was getting too long. (It is a long and luxurious book for a Y.A. novel.)I'll admit that I wasn't fond of the journal conceit when I read the first book, but it's grown on me. Particularly as Ms. Pierce expanded and took advantage of her fantastic street cant. I can NOT believe she snuck some of those comments past the watchdogs that slaver over Y.A. books -- her use of the word "sack", in particular, made me chuckle. And WOW on the LGBT front, too! Ms. Pierce is the first children's author I know who put gay people in a book without the book being ABOUT BEING GAY! I'm sure that there are tons of others, but she was the first one I found -- the Circle of Magic Books. So I wasn't surprised when one of the characters in the book was gay. But I didn't think that even a writer of Ms. Pierce's standing could but a transgender character in. (Transgender or cross-dresser? I'm going with transgender based on some textual evidence, but it could go either way.) But she does and makes him a small but vital part of the story. I'm sure others will bemoan the lack of Pounce in the book, but I was thrilled. Ms. Pierce is a little too fond of the wise animal trope, one of her only flaws as a writer. Watching her and Beka do without was a pleasure.Ms. Pierce clearly did her research for this book and Tortall, which is already a well defined world, came much more richly to life. I love this look into the lower classes -- what they eat and drink, what they wear, how they live. The mechanics of how the police work in this pseudo-medieval world is brilliant and nuanced. She clearly has some things to say about torture but never gets heavy handed with it. And the constant gnawing danger of hunger is very real, very terrifying, and very relevant to today's world.And, Bake got laid! Yay Beka!