First of all, two things: 1. I did not expect a book like this to be about counterfeiting.2. I DEFINITELY didn't expect a book about counterfeiting to be this GOOD.This book started about a year after the conclusion of Terrier with Beka having some rather terrible luck with partners as a fully-fledged dog (though considering she started out with the "cream of the crop" as trainers, I'm really not surprised that the others would fall short). It was pretty great to see that her friends had a "betting pool" going to see how long she'd last with each, but I couldn't help but feel sorry for her bad luck with that XD;; Luckily, she ended up with the BEST partner pretty early on in this book Achoo, I am looking at you girl ;D BEST DOG EVER.The change in pace and scenery for this book was really refreshing, and I loved seeing Beka attempt to act as a "loose dog" in gambling dens and such to gather information. Goodwin was really good at it, but Beka? Can anyone say awkward? :PI also was beyond shocked (and pleased) to see that there was LGBTQ representation in this book with characters that were treated as normal characters and not as token "look how inclusive we are" characters, like you often get. The relationship between Nestor and his trans partner Okha/Amber was the most adorable thing and I loved them and their relationship so much. It was really well written and inclusive and beautiful and I just loved everyone else's reaction to said relationship. They were important central characters to the book and so well written and I loved them <3Honestly, I loved pretty much everything about this novel with the small exception of the reasoning beyond the introduction of the coles by whatshisface. Just seemed a tad ridiculous of a reasoning behind attempting to cripple an ENTIRE FUCKING COUNTRY? The final chase scene at the end with Pearl, Beka, Achoo and Goodwin was phenomenal and so well done (but also, how long did that take real-time? o.O) and I loved it. And the conclusion of the novel with Goodwin retiring from active duty to be a desk sergeant and Tunstall now being Beka's partner (along with Achoo of course) was such a brilliant way to end the novel. I'm expecting great things from Beka and co in the third and final book.Probably 4.5 / 5? Few small things that bugged me, but overall amazing.