Doing good Dog’s work means having a good partner, and Beka is not having good luck finding the latter. She bounces from partner to partner, and usually ends up shadowing Goodwin and Tunstall again. When Tunstall gets laid up and Beka gets attacked after a riot over rising prices, Beka gets attached to Goodwin and sent to Port Caynn on the search for the source of the coles – silver-plated coppers instead of silver nobles – leaking in to Corus. The chance to explore a new city, try on a “character” she is not used to, and learn how to work with the scent hound Achoo would keep a normal Dog busy enough, but Beka doesn’t know how not to follow a trail when she finds one, no matter how deep into the Rats it takes her.   I finally got a chance to read more than a few pages at a time, and each time I got a longer reading session, I completely lost myself in the story. I’d look up to find only 20 minutes had passed, but it felt much longer with how much had happened. Beka is really growing as a Dog and as a multi-faceted woman, and it never ceases to catch my attention to see where she is going to take herself to next with her focus, determination, and desire to do right by people, whether in her own city or another. I love how completely Beka and Tortall take my attention, more than most books have as of late. Maybe I needed it more, maybe it’s just because that is the type of world Pierce has created.   What to say about this book in particular? We get to see a new city, we get to see how very different Dogs and even the different levels of Provosts operate, we get to see how another Rogue Court is run, and we get to see Beka get out of her comfort zones and find new ones. We get a new set of interesting characters for Beka to interact with, maybe even get quite close to, maybe pull away from. We don’t see much of Pounce the cat, but we get lots of Achoo the scenthound and a boatload (hah hah) of other interesting characters. We also get to meet Nestor (a bardash=gay man), and his partner/lover, Okha, who may dress in drag to perform but seems more inclined to being trans . Okha also offers up Beka (and therefore, the reader) a simple, straightforward, clear explanation for who he is. It’s a solid and positive non-cis-hetero romance, and it fits so well even in a “classic fantasy setting” where such relationships are usually quite absent, especially at the time this book was written.   Beka herself gets into a romantic situation, which serves multifold purposes: perhaps least importantly, reminding us she’s a woman with emotions and desires. More importantly, though, it allows her to explore her own feelings, to experience an attraction with someone who is (probably) not truly part of a Rogue Court, and get a taste of balancing another element of her personal life with her work as a Dog. Beka herself is coming more into her own in this book, with a case which has her out of her depth, out of her home, demands she quickly learn new skills, and which has her learning new ropes at lightning speed. She is still shy in front of a crowd especially when not in Dog uniform, but she’s learning more ways around and through her shyness. She has to, if she’s going to be able to take a stand when it’s needed.   The story might be a touch on the long side, but when I mentally look back on it, I can’t see much that could have been cut. Sure, her diary entries, even in cipher, tended to get quite long (I often found myself having to stop multiple times in a chapter/entry, without even a paragraph break to pause at), but they were full. I felt there were a couple more asides where Beka analyzed her own feelings or thoughts than in Terrier, but still very few of them. 97% is still a detailed recounting of the day’s events and conversations, to the point that I basically forgot she was writing journal entries. If I wrote that much, I’d have hand cramps nightly and have more than a few crossed out words and blotted pages from dozing off while writing! It is a full, detailed story, with a mostly new cast of characters to meet, a whole new city to explore, and new intrigue to sniff around and find the Rat at the heart of it all. I am eager to jump right into Mastiff in the morning!Favorite quotes:"Why do I argue with a cat?" I always ask myself that, when I know there's only one answer: I don't learn. I can't even say it's because he's a talking cat. He's a cat, and cats just aren't reasonable. - page 39Sadly for my wedding plans, I learned that Nestor is a bardash. I envy the men who have enjoyed his favors. - page 120"Scummer, pox, and wound rot!" roared Tunstall, slamming his fist down on the bed. "Gods curse the pig-tarsed mammering craven currish beef-witted bum-licking gut-griping louts that did this to me! May every flea, leech, and hookworm in all creation find and feast on them!" - page 134I watched Goodwin, worried how she might handle meeting Okha. You can never tell how folk will greet a bardash or a honeylove. Many don't care, but most screech of unnatural minglings if they so much as see two grown mots or two coves touch hands. It's not what I would like for myself, but I won't speak for what others do. - page 195"Inside I am a beautiful woman," Olka said, fiddling with a perfect curl. "The Trickster tapped me in my mother's womb and placed me in a man's shell." - page 262I serve the law, but sometimes the law can be too hard for my liking. There is no give to it, no tiny openings through which mice can escape while leaving Rats to pay the penalties they have earned. - page 342"Pecking at a lover because of his friends is a fast way to an empty bed," Nestor told me. - page 441Typos:....that you pieces of nose sweet think you can drag me... - page 224 - 'sweet' should be 'sweat'