Welcome to New Reynes, a self-proclaimed City of Sin.Sheltered and innocent, Enne Salta, arrives in New Reynes on a search for her adoptive mother, Lourdes, who has gone missing. Enne's only lead, one name: Levi Glaisyer. Fortunately for Enne, it doesn't take her long to track down Levi. He's a bit infamous in New Reynes. That is when the fun begins. Swept up into this new and dangerous world, Enne feels overwhelmed, but despite her initial culture shock, she finds New Reynes bringing her to life in ways she never imagined possible.Within the city, Enne feels seen for the first time. I truly enjoyed watching Enne's story arc from vulnerable waif to certifiable badass!Levi, Enne's opposite in almost every way, is a street kid, card dealer and Lord of a local street gang. Not unsurprisingly, we discover he has a heart of gold, that heart swiftly develops a sweet spot for Enne. Together, Enne and Levi, try to solve the mystery of Lourdes true identity and what has happened to her.Alternating perspectives, we learn more about the behind the scenes operation of the city and its many corrupt industries.One of the most enjoyable aspects of this book for me was the varied cast of side characters. Bringing humor and depth, this crew is quite the pack of lovable misfits.As far as negatives go, I really only had one issue: the magic system. I feel in this volume it was under-developed. There are many concepts that are given names, but no explanation or definition. For me, I felt like there was a lot of ambiguity. I read a lot of fantasy and do not expect to be spoon fed concepts, but it shouldn't be a mystery either as to how a world is functioning. I was at the very end of the book, in one of the final scenes, still not understanding what was happening with the magic. This issue is actually laced throughout the book which can make sections of it confusing. With this being said, I am so excited to move forward with this series and am anxiously awaiting the release of the second book, King of Fools. I thought the ending was perfect and now I want SO MUCH MORE!!Overall, I feel this is solid start to a series that a lot of people will enjoy due to the action and sweet romance. Thank you so much to the publisher, Harlequin Teen, for providing me with the opportunity to read this book early and provide my opinions.