Ace of Shades by Amanda Foody is the first book of the young adult fantasy The Shadow Game series. I saw a lot of comparisons to Six of Crows before I began to read this one and my first hope was that it wouldn’t have that same slow pace as Six of Crows but of course, yes, it did. They are rather similar in having that slow build, darker young adult tale.The book begins as Enne Salta arrives in New Reynes or what is better known as the City of Sin. Enne’s adoptive mother had often visited New Reynes claiming to be seeing friends and with Enne busy with school she never questioned until now. Enne had been told if her mother didn’t return in two months something would be wrong and if she needed help to contact Levi Glaisyer.When Enne tracks down Levi she doesn’t understand how her mother could direct her to this street lord and con man. But with Levi being her only connection in New Reynes to her mother she has no choice but try to convince him to help her find her mother. With Levi owing a great debt of his own he sees Enne as a means of making what he owes and goes along with her quest even though he’s sure her mother is already dead.Now of course I’ve already said the slow pace within this series is one that I struggle with quite often. I knew there’s a story buried within the pages but it’s just tough holding my attention with any slow build novel. The story was what I expected though as I went along, think Las Vegas but darker (or at least darker than advertised to tourists) and give it a magical side and we have Ace of Shades.This wasn’t bad by any means but it also didn’t shock or wow me just yet either. I would have also like a bit more depth given to things as it went along which with the length and pace I was surprised to find it lacking on occasion. So while I see some absolutely loving this one for me it was just an alright start to the series with of course a bit of a cliffhanger to lead readers into the second book.I received an advance copy from the publisher via Edelweiss.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/