The Coldest Girl in Coldtown was a deliciously creepy and dark story, one that made my heart race and thrill.Tanna lives in a world that seems not too far off from our own; a time when vampires are no longer myth but present and a threat. These vampires have been contained in our modern world into cities, Coldtowns, guarded but connected by live feeds, blog posts and news stories. Sensationalized and romanticized, but Tanna knows the darker side of the story. She has a sad, frightening tale of infection gone horribly wrong in her family’s past. When we meet up with Tanna, she’s like any normal seventeen year old spending her summer at parties and having fun. This all comes to an end when she wakes up to a horrific scene, after she spent the night knocked out from drinking too much. Now she’s on the run with her ex-boyfriend, Aiden, and a boyishly handsome vampire, Gavriel, trying to make it to one of the Coldtowns before Aiden fully changes. This was a dark, mesmerizing story, littered with gore and horror. Holly Black does not hold back painting beautiful and yet terrifying tale. I loved every uneasy minute. Tanna was an easy character to latch onto and root for as she wakes up, and everything is basically full throttle ahead from there on out. She’s determined to do what’s right and yet stay human. Her bizarre and powerful connection to Gavriel surprises and thrills her at the same time. She knows he’s capable of monstrous acts, has probably committed them, but at the same time she sees what he is underneath. "Tana's heartbeat seemed to have moved into her whole body and thrilled it with a single speeding pulse. Everything was a little blurred at the edges and she wanted---she wanted him to feel like she did, like he'd done something forbidden…"The romance in this story was perfect, and not overwhelming, yet enough to speed your heart rate up in whenever Gavriel and Tanna are together. The thing about a romance that’s not in your face is that you spend time analyzing every move and glance, and every word spoke, until what you suspect and hoped for is confirmed! This story has some twists and revelations, and danger at every turn. I think it was a perfect balance of plot and characterization! I was reminded a little of Sunshine by Robin McKinley (one of my favorite vampire stories) while reading this and I think it was because the way it portrayed vampires, a little strange and alien, fascinating and terrible at the same time. Somehow the relationship between Tanna and Gavriel felt similar, too. Can’t put my finger on exactly why, but I loved it! Fans of horror will love this creepy, unsettling and romantic story!! A copy was provided by Little, Brown Books for Young Readers in exchange for an honest review. Thank you!*Quote taken from an uncorrected proof and may change in the final copy.You can find this review and more at The Readers Den.