I never thought I’d ever read another YA vampire book again. But I’d also never read Holly Black’s YA vampires. And Holly Black’s vampires are freaking vicious and vengeful and gory and felt more real (like if this were to actually happen in real life, I could see it being like this), and much more true to legend. I don’t know what made me pick this up after having sworn off vampires years ago. (it was PhantomRin's amazing fanart). I was so over them that I’d literally role my eyes anytime I heard about yet another bleeding vampire book like, “uuiuugh, people are STILL reading vampire books???!! Whhhhy???” But maybe I was feeling Halloweenish this October and was looking for scarier books (I’m not a horror fan I prefer paranormal) so that’s how I ended up here. And I’m so glad I did. I’ve had a hit and miss experience with Holly Black and had almost given up on her after Tithe and The White Cat but then The Cruel Prince came out and changed all that. Even so I was hesitant to pick up The Coldest Girl but I did. And it just hit alllllllllllll the spots. Hit all the spots like The Darkest Part of the Forest and The Cruel Prince (must reads!!!! Easily 5 stars there as well!) If horror is your thing there are bits of it here. Ugh it grossed me out. I hate that gory horror stuff but it really set the dark tone of the book and these nasty vampires and made the story richer. And if it’s not your thing like me, there’s not enough of it to skip this one. I especially loved how The Coldest Girl in Coldtown was not a romance-driven plot! It’s rare in YA, although it’s starting to become more common just recently (yes!) it makes the story just so much more awesome. I always feel like using romance in these types of books, in excess, is like a cheap shot at building a dying plot. So when it’s not there you get so much more than eye-rolling, played out insta-love and dry-humping scenes. I mean we MAY get a dry-humping scene in here still though so don’t worry! There’s still a sprinkle of hotness in here somewhere *creepy perv smile* Which reminds me, do yourself a favour and go check out @phantomRin on IG. The fanart of Gavriel is amazing. The fanart for the other characters too! Actually now I know what turned me on to this book! It was those amazing depictions by @phantomrin! This has happened to me in the past actually....AnywayThank you Holly Black for this yet another unputdownable, amazing, dark and naughty and creepy and pretty much perfect YA book!