5 Stars (Masterpiece)‘The Sword of Kaigen’ is a masterpiece in standalone fantasy writing and the story and characters are so captivating that the story transcended into an emotional and deeply rooted literary experience!! I admit I have a real soft spot for well written, plotted and developed fantasy books. There’s something about the fantasy genre that lifts me from my everyday life and catapults me into pure bliss.  The Sword of Kaigen represents the BEST that a fantasy book could elicit from a reader! I was so blown away and connected to the story and main character ‘Misaki’, that the book left me with tears in many instances! Thanks again to super- reviewers ‘Petrik’ and ‘TS’ for their wonderful review and endorsement of this magic book, otherwise I would have never had the privilege to read it! ‘The Sword of Kaigen’ achieves near nirvana in storytelling, mostly because the characters were so well developed and the story so personal and engaging. This wonderfully gifted writer, M.L. Wang has my utmost admiration! I’m used to ‘fantasy demi-Gods’ like Sanderson, GRR Martin, Tolkien, etc.  Never in a zillion years would I expect a freshman writer to create such a unique and powerful story! The story is heavily influenced by old Japanese military culture and battlegrounds, where samurai swords and martial arts played a vital role in combat. The ‘Kaigenese’ empire is fractured and always surrounded by enemies. At the snowy mountain of Takayubi at the ‘Kusanagi peninsula, rest the legendary Matsuda family who have protected the empire for generations. Known as ‘The Sword of Kaigen’, the Matsuda family, along with many other prominent families form an essential role in the defense and history of the empire. As story unfolds, we follow the Matsuda family in their everyday life and the perils they face defending the empire. The characters are the prized jewels of the narrative, and provide the backbone of this astounding story.  Misaki’s,plight is filled with so much emotion and fluidity, that it’s hard to compare a character I felt so connected in recent memory. Misaki is so well characterized, she parallels to perhaps, my favorite fantasy character of all times: Sanderson’s phenomenal ‘Kaladin’ in the Stormlight series. M.L Wang's inspiration carries over to the ‘supporting’ cast, and Misaki’s son ‘Mamoru’ and the entire Matsuda family are brilliantly portrayed.  At its core, ‘The Sword of Kaigen’ is a story of love between a mother and her son, a story of irreversible loss, a story of redemption from a troubled past, and a story of survival for those you love. M.L. Wang’s use of ‘magic system’ is seamless integrated in story, allowing for ‘awe’ inspiring scenes throughout the book!  Each ‘cast’ of families have different magical ‘abilities’, that allow the control of snow, wind and fire. Their magical abilities create an organic feel to everyday life and the battles. For instance, the ‘Matsudas’ are able to master the ‘Whispering Blade’, a sword made of snow that is so pure that it can cut through virtually any object, including steel! Awesome!! I was blown away by the unrelenting,and brilliantly written action scenes! M.L. Wang’s prowess as a writer is in full display during the action scenes. I completely agree with other reviewers, that thought the unbelievable ‘battles’ with sword/martial arts and magic, are very similar to Sanderson’s brilliant writing! The zenith of the narrative comes at the 40% and 70-75% mark , and it will leave you breathless The Sword of Kaigen is a masterpiece in standalone fantasy storytelling. The narrative and characters are so powerful and emotionally charged and the M.L. Wang’s writing is so ‘personal’, that I was moved and inspired in the end. This is why I love reading! 10 Brilliant Stars!