Spoilers and mentions of sexual violence and suicide follow. “You learn over time that the world isn’t broken. It’s just…got more pieces than you thought.”So What’s It About?A mother struggling to repress her violent past,A son struggling to grasp his violent future,A father blind to the danger that threatens them all.When the winds of war reach their peninsula, will the Matsuda family have the strength to defend their empire? Or will they tear each other apart before the true enemies even reach their shores?What I ThoughtThe Sword of Kaigen left me with quite a bit to think about. So much of it worked incredibly well for me, but at the same time, I’ll confess that some of it didn’t land quite right with me. At the heart of what works and doesn’t work about this story is Misaki, a woman who abandoned a crime-fighting youth to settle down into the role of a dutiful wife to an esteemed family. She’s a mother whose peak fighting days are behind her and she struggles with her sense of duty while trying to reconcile her past and present, her use of violence and her feelings for her children and husband in a way that is truly engaging. It’s immensely satisfying to see her fight for her family and herself after years of passivity, and her struggle between the strictness of Kaigen’s culture and the freedom she found with her friends abroad is so well-written.There’s a scene where she rejects her would-be lover Robin when he comes to visit her before she marries Takeru according to her family’s wishes. Robin asks her if she is sure that she wants to get married and she insists that she is; he implies that she is throwing her life away and what she says in response is so interesting:“How dare you claim to respect my choices and then deny them because you don’t agree with them? How dare you claim to respect my autonomy and then deny it because it means you don’t get to keep me?”It so perfectly captures the conflict at the heart of Misaki’s story – what does it mean for a woman’s empowerment/autonomy/independence to make the “right” or “wrong” choice according to different cultural milieus and different people? What makes it even more complicated is that part of her does truly mean this when she says it to Robin, but Wang also makes it clear that there is a part of her that secretly wants Robin to come sweeping in to carry her away from her decisions. It’s just such an incredibly rich moment for characterization, and I love it a lot.Misaki steps up to the plate to get her husband to be the patriarch and leader that their community needs in a time of crisis, challenging him and confronting him in a way that violates gender norms and breaks the pattern of their unhappy marriage. There’s one line in particular that’s really interesting to me:“You lost your right to my obedience when you stopped being a man!”This was frustrating to me at first, and my immediate reaction was “Well, he doesn’t have the right to her obedience in the first place!!!!!” But then I started thinking about cultural relativism – how presumptive it is to assume that my values are the only right ones and that every women from every cultural context should aspire to those same values and subscribe to my thoroughly Western model of female empowerment and independence. Misaki knows about other countries and their gender norms and, informed with that knowledge as well as knowledge of her home country, she is equipped to know her own values perfectly well and decide what is important to her, what she wants to fight for.The book does end with Takeru listening to her opinions, respecting her decisions and autonomy and generally being a much more equal partner than he was before, but it’s not the kind of 100% Gender Revolution Patriarchy Overthrown!!!!! plot that I think some other authors might have written instead – their roles and spheres are still separate in many ways, and Takeru is very much the leader of their community.I will say that as much as I valued this and as much as it made me check my own assumptions, this arc does falter for me in a couple of significant ways. Other readers might feel differently but the message I got from the story was very much that Takeru and Misaki were both at fault for the state of their marriage, because Takeru repressed all of his emotions and refused to value Misaki’s perspective while Misaki…was submissive and didn’t try to understand him more? At one point she reflects that in the fifteen years of their marriage she had “never once looked at Takeru as someone who might need her help.” The idea of joint responsibility for the state of their marriage doesn’t sit quite right with me – it’s automatically complicated for me by the very unequal power dynamic that was at play in their relationship, for one thing. For another, I feel like there are actually many mentions of Misaki trying to engage with Takeru in a more meaningful and equal way over the course of their marriage – the problem definitely seemed to be much more about Takeru shutting her out and refusing to see her as a partner despite her continued attempts. Finally, I'm not super into the implication that the only reason Takeru didn't treat Misaki like a complex human being with feelings and autonomy was because she wasn't helping him and trying to understand him enough. Ultimately I think the message is that they both subscribed to gender roles that ruined their marriage, and improving their relationship now requires both of them to act in challenging and unconventional ways. My other concern with this part of the story is that Takeru seems to change his mind about a lifetime’s worth of preconceived notions and social norms and emotional regulation techniques VERY quickly. Don’t get me wrong – the duel between the two of them is amazing, and I understand that Mamoru’s death was a major turning point for him. But I’m not quite convinced that that would be enough to get him to change and I wish I could have seen the process of that change happening. There is one brief section of the book from his perspective and it really helped me understand his inner turmoil. As I was thinking about the book afterwards, I decided that Takeru’s development would have been a lot more believable to me if I could have read more of his perspective to see his internal process of changing. The first part of the book features dual perspectives between Mamoru and Misaki, and I couldn’t help but wonder what it would have been like if the second part of the book after Mamoru’s death had featured Takeru’s perspective in Mamoru’s place. I don’t know if it would work or not, but I thought it was a kind of interesting idea.My other big challenge with this book is the treatment of sexual violence. In this case I thought Wang started out doing a great job with Hyori’s feelings after being raped, with her self-blame and shame and conviction that she had betrayed her husband. I loved it when Misaki told her that it wasn’t her fault that she was raped and her husband had nothing to forgive her for. Unfortunately, though, I’ve read THREE books in recent months where a character who exists primarily to be a rape victim dies tragically, and I have to say it’s getting pretty old at this point. I definitely don’t think it’s inherently wrong to demonstrate that someone who’s assaulted may feel that there’s nothing to live for afterwards, but I do think there are ways that those feelings can be addressed in text in a way that doesn’t also feel like it contributes to the ongoing problem of authors treating assaulted characters as if they are disposable after they’ve been assaulted. Of course a lot of characters die in this book, so in that context Hyori isn’t necessarily more disposable than any other character who dies…and yet I do think the additional context of her having been raped complicates her death a little bit. I’d be interested in hearing what others think about this aspect of the story!I also struggled with the fact that Misaki is so repulsed by Takeru for most of the book, especially when she remembers a time that she got so repulsed that she tried to push away from him while they were having sex and he simply held her arms away from her so she couldn’t push him anymore and kept going. I Did Not Like That and I wish they’d addressed it somehow while the two of them were learning to be better partners.All that I have left are a few stray observations: I don’t think it is necessary to write the foreign dialects in italics and there are a few instances I noticed with inconsistent use of the italics. The use of perspective feels a little unwieldy to me at times, with a few passages that become weirdly omniscient, the single section from Takeru’s perspective and a scattering of chapters that are 100% flashback. I read some reviews where reviewers complained about the number of terms they didn’t understand and there is definitely a lot of jargon in this book. As I was reading on my Kindle it was very inconvenient to go to the glossary all the time so I ultimately just let a lot of it wash over me. In my case that ended up being fine and honestly sometimes I think that’s the way to go with really intricate world-building. I think the magic is really cool and the action is wonderfully-well written – I usually get bored of fight scenes but I was interested through all of them in this book. Finally, I really appreciate the themes of imperialism and the exploration of Kaigen being a corrupt state that is full of propaganda and sees its people as expendable.That’s about all I’ve got. Wow, this review got SUPER long but I think it’s a testament to just how much there is to unpack in this book!