It is a perpetual pleasure to finally find a book you can give yourself up to, a book you can curl inside and let the rest of the world flow around you. And it is always an agony to have to uncurl yourself and return to the real world, feeling abruptly unmoored, like a sleepwalker awakened mid-dream wondering what exactly they’d been doing.First, a brief summary.The Kusanagi Peninsula bred warriors, and not just any warriors, but the fiercest that ever were. Years of defending the Kaigenese Empire against its foreign enemies earned the province the nickname “the Sword of Kaigen” and enshrined it as deeply as any truth whispered to the gods before an altar. 14-year-old Matsuda Mamoru wants to claim his legacy as the son of the most eminent warrior family in the Kusanagi Peninsula, but it comes with too high a price. Mamoru’s friendship with Kwang Chul-hee, a new transfer student at the elite Kumono Academy, has forced him to confront uncomfortable truths about the government and the insidious lies they circulate to justify bleeding great gouts of Kaigenese men in never-ending wars so those in power could pull the world’s riches to themselves like spiders in the center of a golden web. Lost and conflicted, Matsuda turns to his mother, Misaki, for answers. Misaki had once been a warrior herself, walking side by side with death, before giving it all up to seek some mute purgatory where she could live as the wife to the distant and hard-hearted Matsuda Takeru. Determined to leave the past behind, she could only offer her son halting truths. But when an attack sends her family careening alone into the fearful darkness, it is as if someone had removed a fuse in her mind: Misaki will protect her family and she will not count the cost.***It’s difficult to talk about this book through my fierce admiration for the author’s achievement in it. The Sword of Kaigen is a massive book. From the outset, the sheer volume of backstory provided amounts to literary whiplash: the world of potent gods, undaunted warriors and horrific monsters is brimming with detail. In a lesser author's hands, this could easily become potboiler, but Wang plots with the meticulous deliberation of a piano tuner. She keeps the dialogue slashing, the prose detailed yet concise, and the action so enthralling my heart often flied out ahead of me. Add in the persistent sensation of dread throughout—that sickening suspicion of where the story might be headed that I didn't want to even think lest that would make it true—and you’ve got a page-turner in the true sense. I literally could not stop turning pages.The Sword of Kaigen has some of the most vivid and cleverly choreographed action sequences that I have ever read, keeping me on the literal edge of my seat most of the time. But some of the book’s most memorable moments occur in stillness, when the author will drop scalpel-sharp insights, striking, with the precision of a well-sent arrow, at so much of what ails not only her fictional world but also most areas all over the world today. (”What sort of a man closed his eyes to the world and called it clarity”) The true monsters of The Sword of Kaigen are, after all, eerily familiar: propaganda, disparity, militarism, and the ways countries can both liberate and dehumanize.The characters, however, make the book. Crafting a multi-voiced novel can trip up even the most seasoned of authors, but Wang makes it look effortless. Wang is exceptionally good at flipping the reader’s perceptions and offering unexpected moments of clarity. As the plot tightens, the characters begin to tell us who they really are. Too often, it is as if we have always seen them from one angle, and now that they have turned, rotated, we are confronted with another facet. The fact, for example, that the author had me feverishly rooting for characters I spent the majority of the novel hating with a Casanovian passion says enough.Misaki, in particular, is an exquisitely refreshing protagonist, and the character that followed me off the page the furthest. Through a series of flashbacks, we witness how her personality has changed throughout the years from a sharp, hot-tempered teenager to an older, detached, mute facsimile of herself. The insolence is gone, that old aggressive glint: Misaki had curled into her good-wife place like a bird bred in a cage, too dull to fly even when the door stands open. But over the course of the novel, she becomes something else entirely. Misaki grows tired of listening to her husband, tired of the weight of his will crushing her smaller and smaller, tired of minding her place. She was a woman—not just a body, not just skin and softness, not a toy or a tamable creature, and her transformation (more an unlocking than a change) is a wonder to behold.The exploration, too, of mother-son relationships is unforgettable. At turns tender, touching, and terrifying, it speaks deeply to the rewards of motherhood without shying away from its risks. Misaki had four children, and for years, she had not seen any of them clearly. When she looked, she saw only the mirror of her own faults, and she had stood, and watched them recede from her, shrinking to the end of a tunnel. Misaki's journey is, in many ways, about reclaiming her name as a mother, which she hadn't felt capable or even worthy of. "How had a soulless block of ice like Takeru and a selfish thing like her", Misaki muses at one point, "created something so bright?"All in all, The Sword of Kaigen is an adventure and a half, and a new all-time favorite. I genuinely do not doubt that every single fantasy reader will hungrily devour this novel (and, if you're like me, ask for more at the end).