I know, I know. Please don't judge me, I'm sick.But it's the sweetest kind of addiction. The one that doesn't let you sleep at nights because your thoughts wander into faraway lands and your heart beats fast for the people you came to love deeply even though they're the products of someone else's brilliant mind and beautiful soul. And I'm not alone, because I'll see you all in therapy, right? Right?

“Queens and kingsKings and QueensBlue lily, lily blueCrowns and birdsSwords and thingsBlue lily, lily blue”

One missing mother.Two arrivals that will endanger everyone in little Henrietta.Three sleepers, one to wake up, one to not wake up, and one in between.Four boys, a magician, a ghost, a dreamer, a king.And a promise of death as the result of true love's kiss. In most fairytales, true love's kiss is the beginning. In this one, it's the end.

“A lot of promises get broken, Blue.” 

As the series progresses, as I fall deeper and deeper in love with the Raven boys and Blue and her crazy family, something cold and malevolent seizes my heart and steals my breath. It's fear. Life-sucking fear. Blue Lily, Lily Blue's atmosphere is heavy and ominous as time passes by, as Gansey's death seems more probable and Blue's love for him intensifies, as more and more people search for the Welsh king and the evil sleeper uses all his mighty force to make someone awaken him. While I dreamed under Henrietta's cloudy sky and heard the whispers of Cabeswater's ancient trees, I begged for a miracle. But I'm not sure I will get one.

“I was here. I exist. I’m alive, because I bleed.”

How many powerful emotions are evoked by characters brilliantly flawed and damaged! I finally grew fond of Adam, and sympathized with his loneliness and was happy with the way his relationship with Ronan started to develop. Perhaps they'll find a kindred spirit in each other and share their grief, their anger, and trade them with something more invigorating, something brighter! But while their futute seems full of possibilities, Blue and Gansey follow a path that will result in heartbreak and tears. Probably mine.

“Blue,” he warned, but his voice was chaotic. This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, “I just want to pretend. I want to pretend that I could.”

And it's incurable.Blue Lily, Lily Blue preludes an intense and all-consuming final book, so I will leave this mundane world for a while and dive into The Raven King exhilarated and terrified. Send a prayer my way.

“The Raven King, make way for the Raven King.”