“Blue,” he warned, but his voice was chaotic. This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, “I just want to pretend. I want to pretend that I could.” This is my favorite so far, I'm in love!

“Queens and kings, Kings and queens. Blue lily, lily blue, Crowns and birds. Swords and things, Blue lily, lily blue”

 I feel like a lot of things right now, I just finished the book and making a mental review of what has been, I can say that I can't be happier and in accordance with it!
Warning Warning!
 : So many good lines in this book, I can become something hysterical with them in this review, to abstain! 

“You can be just friends with people, you know," Orla said. "I think it's crazy how you're in love with all those raven boys."Orla wasn't wrong, of course. But what she didn't realize about Blue and her boys was that they were all in love with one another. She was no less obsessed with them than they were with her, or one another, analyzing every conversation and gesture, drawing out every joke into a longer and longer running gag, spending each moment either with one another or thinking about when next they would be with one another. Blue was perfectly aware that it was possible to have a friendship that wasn't all-encompassing, that wasn't blinding, deafening, maddening, quickening. It was just that now that she'd had this kind, she didn't want the other.”

Speaking of the book in general was very interesting, with a lot of mystery, as always, and especially full of love, friendship and revelations!I liked the addition of new characters, especially a special mention for Jessie Dentley, who seemed to me the best !, is a character for which I am very fond of and the dialogue with Blue were the best! :)

“It kills Dittleys and does terrible things to my friend.""YOUR DEAD FRIEND.""That's not his fault. Why didn't you say you could see him?""I DIDN'T SAY I COULD SEE YOU, EITHER.""But I'm not dead.""BUT YOU ARE PRETTY SHORT.”

I can't stand it, I have to talk about my loversBlue and Gansey! , This relationship is growing so much that drive me crazy, I found the sweetest moments , their dialogues leave me pining, every time I finished reading a chapter about them and their relationship I needed to read another immediately ... I really hope to see more and more of this in the end, I have both expectant and nervous about what will to happen, so we'll see.
 “Don't tell the others," Gansey said."I'm dead," Noah replied, "not stupid.”
PS: One of the things I love most about this relationship is that it manages to catch you and fall in love without being cloying at all, is in the perfect dose and that is merit of Maggie's incredible script ! .And I can't not overemphasize the relationship in this book between Ronan and Adam, I'm surprised about this, but they catch me with its mysterious and private moments, die of love !. At first I confess that took me by surprise and I was like WTF, LOL but then I couldn't stop thinking about what was happening. Very clever scenes and dialogues between them!.

“I know when I'm awake and when I'm asleep," Ronan Lynch said.Adam Parrish, curled over himself in a pair of battered, greasy coveralls, asked, "Do you?""Maybe I dreamt you," he said. "Thanks for the straight teeth, then," Adam replied.”

Incorporating the point of view of Greenmantle and his wife seemed to me the best, because we can know the characters of better way . Piper surprised me!, a character who start to being a very secondary to have much involvement in the plot, and I liked it.While Colin has left me a bittersweet feeling, it is that I expected a lot more, but still is not the end so it can be more about.The end only makes me want to grab the next book even more !. It scares me what happens from now on but I have to be strong and go for it, I hope all ends well for my boys, it is that I never believed be so in love with this characters :)

“I'm glad you misdialed.""Well. Easy mistake to make," she said. Might do it again." A very, very long pause. She opened her mouth to fill it, then changed her mind and didn't. She was shivering again, even though she wasn't cold with the pillow on her legs."Shouldn't," Gansey said finally. "But I hope you do.”