Queen of Darkness is a fantastic and heart wrenching conclusion to the first trilogy of this series. It ends at a really good point that you could set the series down and walk away for a while. Which you might need since this is brutally dark at times. Or maybe you’re like me… Once I picked up Queen of Darkness it was difficult to stop, I couldn’t wait to see how all the events for this trilogy would play out and how many characters would make it out alive.Dorthea and Hekatah have all their players in place and are moving forward with their plan to conquer. The Demon dead of the inner circle have seen something like this before and fear that it will be just like the last time when they died on battlefields. The tangled web has been woven and Jeanelle has seen the future, if she goes to war no blood will survive. But there is a sliver of a hope a ghost of a chance, but it means a very difficult path that she might not make it out of. Good thing Jeanelle has so many on her side, maybe the Spiders and the Kindred can see how to get her through the trials ahead.I don’t know why I get so caught up in the day to day at the court with Jeanelle, but I find almost all of it interesting. It was wonderful having Daemon back in the picture after they spent all of the last book apart and how each is so careful with the other until someone helps push them together. Daemon has payed a price for walking in the twisted kingdom and needs some time and help to heal. He has found the perfect place for it.I enjoyed most of this book and for being so long it seemed to fly by. Jeanelle is so strong in some areas and then in others she is vulnerable and you can tell she is young and sometimes a little to hopeful of people and how they will be and that they will do the right thing. I loved her complete trust in Daemon and how far he was willing to go for her to buy the time she needed.The way Anne Bishop made all the characters in this essential to the final battle but in unconventional ways was really great. I loved that not all sacrifices in war are on a traditional battlefield and the way the demon dead contributed to saving the blood, well it both broke my heart and gave me chills all at the same time.The only thing that was sad is how after everything the inner circle has seen of Jaenelle and what she can do they didn’t trust her more. Karla was the only one who seemed to keep faith and not really question if the queen and her consort just might have a plan that would save them all, even if the price for saving the blood was high.Fantastic conclusion to the first trilogy in this series.