Ugh. I really wanted to like this book. I'm pretty much the target audience for this - I like my fantasy books on the more serious side, I like them to have a fixation with history, and I like them to be pretty detailed in their development. And since I study medieval history, I got to pick out all the allusions to the real Crusades. But I can't say I'd really recommend it - for all its good attributes it winds up getting a bit too caught up in trying to maintain its own self-importance for it to succeed as a story.Let’s start with the good: Bakker is a very good worldbuilder. He’s taken the time to craft loads of religions, philosophies, and political factions in his world, and he’s assembled them in a way where they all mostly make sense in relation to each other. Even better, he doesn’t info-dump all this information into a prologue (which would have made for a startlingly boring 50 pages) but introduces in a way that’s mostly natural and trusts its readers to keep up (or, if they can’t, to be able to take a quick look at the handy appendices in the back). It’s refreshing that he assumes his readers can follow his narrative without any handholding. Bakker also handles his world’s history well: not only is it well developed, interesting, and rather unique, but the different characters’ varying responses to its history make the world feel old, in an effortless and authentic way. By the end, I was enjoying Bakker’s fake excerpts from his world’s history books and philosophical treatises more than I was enjoying his story itself. He’s also (with the exception of some clunky dialogue and some occasionally overwrought prose) a pretty good writer with a good gift for surprising word choice. Unfortunately, The Darkness that Comes Before never quite makes the leap from being a good idea to a good story. I think there are two central problems holding it back. The first is an issue that is starting to become problematic in the world of post-George R.R. Martin fantasy: the idea that increased “grittiness” equates with increased “reality.” I honestly think that that's a kind of terrible assumption to make as an author, and a kind of perplexing one. Martin’s world isn’t realistic because it’s gritty, it’s realistic because characters who can commit acts of cruelty or cowardice are frequently also capable of immense kindness, and because scenes of violence bump up against scenes that are heart-warming or funny. It’s a realistic world because it covers a wide range of emotions and acknowledges that they can manifest themselves in the same places and same people, even if they’re contradictory. That’s where Bakker’s book fails. His characters are gritty, sure, but they’re also really flat. With the possible exceptions of Achamain and Cnäiur, everyone fits pretty neatly into the categories of sociopath, people verging on the brink of insanity, single-minded religious zealots, and a vast horde of people who aren’t clever enough to avoid being manipulated by them. I hope the Consult kills them all. Kidding! It’s probably the most relentlessly dour book that I have ever read, to the point where Bakker’s world starts to feel fundamentally unrealistic. No one is ever happy or kind, they just brood ominously, hysterically lash out and other people, or attempt to move others around like chess pieces. It’s the polar opposite of a fantasy novel where everyone is flawlessly noble and heroic, but that doesn’t make it innovative or original – it just makes it a different flavor of one-dimensional. It makes the whole book and whole world feel tinny, and it’s a flaw that no number of linguistic trees in the appendices can really overcome. The other issue is one that’s been noted by other people already: the book has a bit of a women problem. I get that the women in Bakker’s universe are forced into a socially inferior position and most of their powerlessness stems from there. There’s nothing inherently sexist about that, and you can tell a very interesting and ultimately empowering story from that perspective. The ease with which Kellhus manipulates Selwë isn’t inherently sexist either – she’s been horribly abused, and its understandable that she’d latch on to the nearest person to show any sort of interest in her. The problem is that he hasn’t created compelling storylines for these women, or written them in an interesting way. And without that, it just becomes of endless slog of rape, self-loathing, and abuse. Nearly all the scenes involving women in Bakker's book are upsetting and voyeuristic and fail to establish either women as unique or compelling characters. They’re just victims. This problem gets compounded in a pretty ugly way when it’s revealed that the single woman with any kind of power in this universe (and therefore a good opportunity to go beyond the victim trope) turns out to routinely use her sexuality to manipulate everyone around her and to have sexually molested her son. Yikes. In the end, it all comes back to Bakker’s central problem: he equates grittiness and cruelty with narrative realism and weight, but in the end it only results in the opposite effect.