"The Darkness That Comes Before" is the first book of the "Prince of Nothing" series. It is excellent. When G.R.R. Martin talked about what motivated him to write "Game of Thrones" and he pointed to the Wars of the Roses as motivation. R. Scott Baker's motivation seems to stem from the time of the Crusades. As with Martin's work, the association is loose but subtly obvious. The Old World ended in fire and destruction, two thousand years ago, as the non-human Sranc and their Scylvendi allies launched an assault on the Old Empire. At great cost and sacrifice, the forces of the No-God were defeated, but the Old Empire fell. Time passed and history became legend and legend, eventually, passed into myth.It is in this setting we are introduced to the players of this grand tale. The Shriah, the spiritual head of the Church of Tusk, has called for a Crusade to recapture the Holy City of Shimeh from the heathen Fanim. The nations gather their armies, but the departure point for the Crusade rests in the lands of the Nansur Empire (much like Constantinople and the Eastern Roman Empire) and the Emperor has plans for the forces that are in his land that do not coincide with the Shriah and his religious hordes.During this major event, there is something else going on. Drusas Achamian, a mage of the Mandate School, has been spying for his School and stumbles across a terrible secret. The Consult, a rouge band of mages that serve the No-God, still exists and they are planning something. That something may have to do with the coming of the Second Apocolypse.Cnaiür urs Skiötha is a Cheiftain of the Scylvendi. This brutal warlord seeks to overcome his challenges and rise to the top of his kinfolk. His brutal nature and viciousness make him a great warrior. He is joined by the mysterious Anasûrimbor Kellhus, a Dûnyain monk. The Dûnyain are a monsatic order, bred for intelligence and reflexes. They are taught near mystical powers of manipulation and understanding. They are also masters of combat, their training making them nearly Jedi-like in their abilities.These three people, along with the major players from the Empire and the Western nations, combine to undertake a journey to meet with the invading forces. But what is Kellhus up to? It seems that there is something left of the Old World and he may be the key to unlocking it.Overarching all these conflicts is the main question- is the No-God real? Is the Consult real? If they are- does that mean the Second Apocolypse is coming?A wonderful new world. The setting and the general feel remind me of Tolkein, the politics of the story are very GoT in nature and the action is quite entertaining. Superbly written, full of great characters and lore and a deep, complex political situation that is a pleasure to read about. R. Scott Baker has a winner on his hands and is one of the best fantasy books I've read in a while. Highly recommended to any fantasy fan that loves complex plots and great writing.