August 2021 update: Sometimes you just need to re-read an old favorite. Glad I did, it has been a while since I last dipped my toe into this series and I will likely finish all of them by the end of the year. The below review still holds up.Observational aside: I will rarely reread books. Once I finish a book it is usually off to the next one, with few exceptions. In this case the sixth book in the series, The Great Ordeal, is coming out soon, a book I have waited nearly five years for, and I wanted to give myself a refresher on the entire series before it was released. I don't recall the first time I read "The Prince of Nothing" trilogy but Goodreads assures me it was before I joined this website. Since then I have read literally hundreds of books and grown as a reader thanks to those books as well as thinking through those books when I write reviews. Over that time my sensibilities and critical eye has changed as well (I'd like to think for the better) so it was a rather enlightening exercise this return to a time in my reading life from before Goodreads (BGR?). With that rambling out of the way on to the review.On its surface this book shares many traits with your typical fantasy epic: sprawling world, epic stakes, magic, mayhem, mysteries, otherworldly monsters, ancient evil, etc. etc. But I think this series really stands out among the crowded Epic Fantasy field for several significant reasons.World Building: While very much based on the Mediterranean world on the cusp of the First Crusade (so much so it made me want to read God's War: A New History of the Crusades again) Bakker merely uses this historical period as a starting point. He populates the Three Seas area of his world with delightfully unique nations, people, and beliefs. While there are obvious historical parallels between some nations and institutions (Catholic Church, Byzantine Empire, People's Crusade to name a few) it is not blatant and they are a very naturally part of Bakker's fantastical world.On top of the excellent contemporary cultures and societies Bakker's world has a deep history that informs the present. It stretches back thousands of years but revisits some characters nightly (more on that below) and is truly original. In this case the ancient evil is actually aliens who crash landed on the planet ages ago and made war with the dominant non-human civilization at the time. Their conflict is literally a thing of legends spanning hundreds of years but sufficed to say they are truly alien and utterly chilling in their goals.Magic: Some worlds have whimsical magic, or utilitarian magic, or healing magic. Not Bakker. His magic can basically set at one or eleven with nothing in between. You have your low level alarm cants (as spells are called) and limited communication cants and then you have the everything in the local vicinity burns/blows up, there is no in between Sorcerers sings God's song and burn the world with it.But Bakker balances this raw power with Chorae, items from that ancient war that render the bearer immune to sorcery and will turn any sorcerer it touchesinto salt (talk about biblical). In that way a sort of balance exists between Sorcery Schools and secular powers (it doesn't do the Schoolmen much good that they are condemned as abominations by the prevalent religion of the region). Magic is both destructive but also limited and checked. This balance creates a fascinating dynamic in the political balance of the world.Writing decisions: While a bit more personal as a criteria, there are multiple things Bakker does that really appeal to me and I think lends themselves to effective Epic Fantasy writing. The first are the little passages that start off every chapter. They might be an in-world proverb or a passage from an in-world piece of literature but they are a nice flourish that effectively add to this vibrant, realistic world the read finds themselves in. There is also a glossary in the back. Man, I love me some fantasy glossaries, it helps explain concepts and really flesh out the history of the world that isn't explicitly explained in the book. I don't know what every epic fantasy doesn't have them, they're great!Bakker isn't afraid to shift from a character's POV to a high level view and description of events. Given the scope of the events Bakker is writing about this is a much more effective and efficient way of communicating major events to the reader that the characters don't necessarily have an ideal viewpoint into. It avoids conversations that are shoehorned in to convey the same information which would break up the flow of the story. The confidence that Bakker delivers these (usually) short sections and their effectiveness of advancing the story is an excellent quality in my opinion.Bakker also isn't afraid to dwell in the mind and thoughts of the characters. This is crucial because for as much as this series is about an epic war, the story is driven by the main characters: Khellus the Dûnyain monk, Drasas Achamian (Aka), a Mandate Schoolman who dreams of the first Apocalypse every night, Cnaiür urs Skiötha, a steppe barbarian on the hunt for vengeance, and Esmenet, Drasas former lover and a whore (plenty more on THAT later). Let's take each of them separately and explore what makes them so fascinating.Khellus hails from a monastery of very secretive monks (for lack of a better word). He was sent into the world he has been isolated from his entire life to hunt down his father who had left decades before but has recently sent dreams to Khellus calling him to a far off city. And, to put it simply, he is a sociopath. He doesn't see others has people, merely tools to be used to further his end (more on the Dûnyain in subsequent reviews). And thanks to two thousand years of dedicated training and breeding the Dûnyain come packing some serious abilities. It is fascinating to see him navigate the social currents of the Holy War and his perception the Three Seas culture as an outsider.Cnaiür urs Skiötha hails from a race of warlike steppe people but had crossed paths with Khellus's father decades before the events of the book (it didn't go so well for him). His people are very traditional but he has always found himself somehow outside their culture no matter how hard to tries to adhere to its norms. He falls in with Khellus as a means to enact vengeance on Khellus's father. From his perspective we see the torment of being somewhat freed of the restrictive cultural norms of his people while still trying to live up to them. He is also the most violent of all men and the breaker of horses, not the kind of guy you'd want to meet in a dark alley at night.Drasas Achamian (Aka to his friends) is very much a tortured soul. A spy for the Mandate School of Sorcery (not an actual school like Hogwarts, that is just what sorcerers are called, schoolmen) he finds himself swept up in the Holy War and falling into company with Khellus and Cnaiür. His school is the only one that possess the Gnostic sorcery of the Ancient North (much more powerful than their contemporary Anagogic sorcerers and have a Mandate from the great sorcerer of the First Apocalypse to be ever vigilant of the Consult, the great ancient enemy. While their magic is much more powerful than other schools they are a bit of a laughing stock as no one believes the Consult still exists, yet every night they re-live their founders horrors from the First Apocalypse. Aka is a somewhat broken man, having lost students and faith in his school's mission. Through Esmenet we see how terrible this world is to women. It is pretty much as terrible as you would expect in a world roughly modeled after 11th century Europe. Together with two other female characters of less importance they comprise the sum of the female characters in the book (yeah, not exactly brimming with female voices). While Esmenet is pretty strong (you have to be to survive as whore in these conditions) and whip smart her society doesn't allow her many avenues of opportunity. She does develop into quite the formidable character throughout the series but is perpetually at risk of becoming the victim of some violence of another.While the argument could be made that Bakker was trying to stay true to the conditions he was basing the story on, the fact that there are sorcerers and ancient evil space aliens and monks that can read emotions and intent based on facial muscles could give him plenty of room to develop female characters with more agency. I think Bakker somewhat intended this (as he treats the female characters he does introduce with the same workmanship as the male ones) and instead wanted to uses Esmenet as a window for the reader into one of main themes I pulled out of this series: control (but more on that bit of philosophical rambling in a later review). All these characters (along with other, more minor ones) have fascinating inner thoughts and observations that really enrich them and lend further depth to the world they populate. For the most part they are all horribly flawed in some way, but that just makes them even more interesting.(I will say, however, that this absence of significant female characters and the role female characters did play did dim my enthusiasm for this book a bit, knocking it down from the BGR rating of five stars to four stars. Just a sign of my evolving sensibilities I suppose)So when you mix all these really strong characteristics together you end up with a very engaging and ambitious book. It is just as much about political maneuvering as it is about fighting (Arguably more so in this book as there is really only one major battle). There are a lot of other themes in this book that I plan on expanding upon in subsequent reviews but I found the ideas the book brings up very fascinating and engrossing.And of course the writing was pretty nifty as well:Sounds like my kind of place: The place was invariably crowded, filled with shadowy, sometimes dangerous men, but the wine and hashish were just expensive enough to prevent those who could not afford to bathe from rubbing shoulders with those who could.Peoples is peoples: But when one became a spy, the world had the curious habit of collapsing into a single dimension. High-born men, even emperors and kings, had a habit of seeming as base and as petty as the most vulgar fisherman.We've all had these happen to us: Some events mark us so deeply that they find more force of presence in their aftermath than in their occurrence. They are moments that rankle at becoming past, and so remain co temporaries of our beating hearts. Some events are not remembered - they are relived.True in the real world, and not just kings: Kings never lie. They demand the world be mistaken. -Conriyan Proverb Also true in the real world, to a somewhat disconcerting degree: But is this not the very enigma of history? When one peers deep enough, one always finds that catastrophe and triumph, the proper objects of the historian's scrutiny, inevitably turn upon the small, the trivial, the nightmarishly accidental.Sherman was a bit more succinct, but would probably agree: "You know nothing of war. War is dark. Black as pitch. It is not a God. It does not laugh or weep. It rewards neither skill nor daring. It is not a trial of souls, not the measure of wills. Even less is it a tool, a means to some womanish end. It is merely the place where iron bones of the earth meet hollow bones of men and break them."The Virtue of Doubt: "There's faith that knows itself as faith and there's faith that confuses itself for knowledge. The first embraces uncertainty, acknowledges the mysteriousness of God. It begets compassion and tolerance. Who can entirely condemn when they are not certain they are in the right? But the second embraces certainty and only pays lips service to the God's mystery. It begets intolerance, hatred, violence..."The Paradox of living in the world: Politics: one bartered principle and piety to accomplish what principle and piety demanded. One sullied himself in order to be cleansed.This series is a bit darker than most other ones out there not to mention more sexually explicit. But these themes fold into the larger thrust of the narrative and aren't thrown in their to solely titillate. I am still enjoying this series a lot even if I am approaching it from a new, more refined perspective.