This is my second read of Bakker's compelling dark fantasy The Darkness That Comes Before. My first read was around the original publication date. I recall this being one of the best dark fantasy books I'd read to that point. I remember thinking the writing was engaging, the plot was interesting, the world building was fantastic, and that the characters were memorable. The only flaws I had identified was that the sheer complex nature of the world and characters meant that it took me about 100 pages or so to get to grips with the world and the characters. I thought this was a sure 5 star read and one of the best dark fantasy books I'd ever read! So how did this hold up more than a decade later with the added experience of having read a ton of other dark fantasy stories in the wake of the boom of the grimdark fantasy subgenre? It held up really well! This still ranks as one of my all time favourite dark fantasy books. I still find Bakker's writing to be very engaging and I still feel like the depth to the world building and plot are excellent. Bakker's characters might be tough to like but I was always sucked into their various story arcs. This second time around I felt like the story was a bit easier to get into in the early stages.This is complicated multi-POV fantasy set in the brutal world of Eärwa. For the first time in a long time The Thousand Temples is unified behind a powerful, and mysterious, new leader. That leader is threatening to call the faithful to arms for a Holy War. The Inrithi nations are a fractured bunch and more used to squabbling amongst themselves to secure their own share of power than anything else but the leaders of various nations all see a chance for glory and gain in the Holy War. Agents across the Inrithi nations and from multiple other various factions in Eärwa scramble to learn whether the Holy War's target will be the unclean sorcerers of the various lands or if it will be the powerful heathen nation of Kian. To complicate matters even further it seems agents of the long forgotten No-God might also be taking an interest in the happenings! The story was complex and compelling and packed with action and intrigue as the various factions all sought to seize the Holy War and turn it to their own profit. The other big win for this book was the characters. None of them were particularly likeable but all of them were interesting and had fascinating stories. Kellhus was one of the more memorable and unique characters I've come across in all my years of reading. The Dûnyain monk's ability to twist any situation to his advantage was as horrifying as it was compelling! This was a dark story. No surprise given that a lot of the main characters were pretty awful people and that the story and world was reminiscent of the Crusades in the medieval period. Only with a bunch of fun magic and supernatural creatures thrown in to complicate matters and make them even more exciting! That said, I did not feel like this was over the top grim, as I feel is an issue with a lot of modern grimdark stories, and that Bakker managed to mitigate a lot of the real horrors of his brutal world by not revelling in that brutality and horror. A lot of it got described in a distant way that made it more palatable for the reader. This rates up there with Gardens of the Moon and Game of Thrones for me. All in all I loved this one and it remains one of the best dark fantasy stories I've read. Rating: 5 stars.Audio Note: I felt like David DeVries did a good job with the audios. His character voices were decent and he seemed to handle the voice acting as well.