4/5 Stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️“No man can say with certainty what the future may hold. But perhaps, in knowing what has already transpired, we can all do our part to avoid the mistakes of our forebears, to emulate their successes, and to create a world more harmonious for our children and their children, for generations to come.”This book was exceptional, magnificent, impactful. I never expected to have so much fun with a history book... this is the shit they should have taught us in school! I have never had the pleasure of reading a book such as this... I never would have if not for my desire to start off with the ASOIAF book series. The Game of Thrones TV show was one of my favorite TV shows out there... and how they butchered the last season 8 made me want to start the books immediately to fill the void in my soul. So... due to the fact I'm a graphic designer, I HAD to have this illustrated marvel of a book! So here we are.To be completely honest with you, this was hard to read at times. Prior to buying it, I saw that this book had 320 pages so I was like "how hard can it be?" but this book was like a 700 PAGE BOOK IN DISGUISE. Honestly man, I was so tired at times that I wanted to give up. But I wouldn't, of course. Doesn't mean the thought didn't pass my mind.At some point, I thought I was reading real history. This book was so detailed, with rich stories and backgrounds of every place, every war, every King. I liked that the delivery wasn't one dimentional... it wasn't like "yes, this happened in 60 B.C. and this happened then this way", we got more than that. We got rumors and different interpretations of a certain event from different measters, we got quotes, we got stories only told by common folk and songs, we got stories buried in time with few details left for the reader, we got the whole package. The history of the Targaryens and its Kings was the most fascinating to me. I couldn't stop reading at this point, honestly. All the different Kings, all their different characters and tempers and how they all affected the Seven Kingdoms. This whole history makes me even more mad about the outcome of the show! FUCK D&D (I say it everywhere I go, I had to mention it here, too). After this huge passage, we got the history of each of the Seven Kingdoms. This is when it dragged a bit for me... but I wasn't disappointed. At the end... what bored me a bit to be true to you... was the last 70 pages of beyond the places we know of from the show history. Except from Volantis, Braavos, Pentos, Naath and some other places we have heard of from the show, the other ones I skimmed over. This fact doesn't diminish my enjoyment of the book, these stories had to also be said.Last but not least, I have to talk about something that bothered me due to the fact I'm a graphic designer. I won't be talking about the illustrations of course... don't get your tinsel in a tangle. So... I work in a magazine and I basically make the entirety of it in InDesign so I know how these books are made. MANY times I would see letters in a sentence being different sizes than the sentence above it... which can't happen. Furthermore the lines weren't equal... I would see a blank little space where text should have been and it irritated me and then the columns wouldn't be equal in size... and the letters had different justifications...ugh. I can't explain it here how I should have... graphic designers who build up magazines in InDesign will know. Just thought to mention it, no one else would notice it but me.Overall. I'm so glad this one my first fantasy history books. I'm off now to the ASOIAF series... wish me luck on that one! It will truly be an adventure to be remembered forever. So.. till the next one... k bye!