First off, all these 1 star reviews before the book even came out (and even after) are just people upset with the fact that Martin has once again published something that is not Book 6.To them I say... well lets just put it kindly, shut up!Anyone who is a fan of Martin and the ASoIaF Series should know before hand that this does not progress the story of the actual novels and your beloved characters are not going to make appearances. Read this book for what it is and you will not be disappointed.The book is beautifully done as George promised. A lot of new artwork and some I've seen before (mostlty of the castles from the Calenders). I'd say 85% of it is knew. Lots of portrait and battle depictions, and dragons, many pictures of dragons! VERY BEAUTIFUL ART! For the art alone I feel this is worth picking up.Now onto the actual text. As a long time fan, I have read all 5 of the main books, all the Dunk and Egg stuff, Dangerous woman and Rogues. If you are familiar with the latter to works it reads much like those. There are no POV's. It reads like a historical text written from the perspective of a Maester. That being said it is still very entertaining. I have only read the first 50 pages or so, so my review may be a little early and may modify it if needed. Yes George did NOT write all of this, its obvious by the fact that there are two other authors listed. However you can tell that he has his hand in all of it. Also there are still all the wonderful words like six-and-ten, mayhap, jape, lobstered steel, etc... (so you should feel right at home).I do find it interesting to read about all the history of the realm, how the wall was created, the Dawn Age, the Free Cities, Valyria, as well as all the kingdoms. It does 'skip' over a lot of the Dunk and Egg time period (i imagine George will fill us in with that) though it does talk about the Tragedy at Summerhall. It also "ends" with Robert as King more or less. Overall highly satisfied and if your a true fan you will not be disappointed as long as you go into reading this book accepting the fact that its not Book 6. Highly recommend for any GoT fans.