This book is a great companion to the ASOIAF series and contains very interesting information. I got goose bumps reading this book. It’s like a treasure of rubies, emeralds and sapphires for fans of ASOIAF. So much valuable information…from The Pact between the Children of the Forest and First Men to The Pact of Ice and Fire between Houses Stark and Targaryen. You get to learn a lot about the origin of your favorite characters, their ancient houses and how these houses have been affected by famous historical wars or events. The information is not limited to the Seven Kingdoms and the book covers all the lands known to Maesters of the Citadel, from the great empire of Valyria to Free Cities and even Asshai and Yi Ti.Keep in mind that this book is written like a history textbook because it is a history book, written by Maester Yandel of the Citadel. He is quite biased and obviously very skeptical of magic. Maester Yandel has actually written this book as a gift to, and I quote, good King Robert and his fair son and heir Joffrey!*Snorts* So yeah, not a very reliable narrator! Sometimes he is so biased, it's actually hilarious!Don’t start this book expecting to find answers for all the big and important mysteries. Sometimes the book actually raises more questions than it answers. You are going to get a lot of “not worth repeating here" or “But that tale is too well-known to warrant repeating here” instead of information that is vital to fans and the main storyline! Several times I wanted to tear out my hair in frustration but let’s face it, all the big revelations are reserved for the main books and that actually makes sense. Of course I am being this understanding about it because I gave myself time to cool down!*Coughs and looks at the destroyed surrounding*But the book does give you many important facts and details. I perfectly remember how I wanted to scream when Old Nan left her tale of last hero unfinished. Guess what? The rest of the tale is here! Obviously, not in details and it’s quite vague but there is at least some sort of closure.When I accepted that the big answers are not here and stopped looking for them, the book became like a very fun puzzle. For example, some of the things mentioned in Aegon’s conquest, complement the history of Dorne and if placed together, contribute to theories that could solve parts of big mysteries like what really happened to Queen Rhaenys or why Aenys I was such a sickly child and his half-brother, Maegor I had problem producing children. Natural causes? Curse? BloodMagic?You also get to learn the many legends and myths of WOIAF that lead to even more questions and theories. For example, there are so many different versions of Azor Ahai’s story. It looks like he has been to many different parts of the world and there are many different tales that somehow complement each other. Is he even one person? Maybe multiple people? Or maybe a title that passes from one to another?Am I reading too much into things? Most likely. Am I going insane with all these theories? Probably. Am I going to need therapy after this series is finished and the massacre is over? Most certainly.You find out a lot about characters like Daenerys I, Daemon or Bloodraven but some characters like Jenny of Oldstones are only vaguely mentioned and have mysterious backgrounds that are only hinted at. You also get to learn very interesting facts about characters that you are more familiar with, such as The Mad King Aerys or Tywin Lannister. This book helps to better understand the circumstances and complications that led to Robert's rebellion. Reading that part was actually painful for me, considering all the precious lives that were destroyed.Before reading this book, with a few exceptions like Daenerys or Rhaegar, I actually disliked the Targaryens, not liking their sense of entitlement or their traditions. But after learning the complete history of their house, my opinion changed and although they can never replace Starks in my heart, I really like them now.Very interesting historic figures are introduced as well. You get to learn the full story and adventures of Queen Nymeria while you are also introduced to fascinating new figures like The Garth Greenhand. He alone hints at so many possibilities, considering he is supposed to have fathered many children including Brandon of the Bloody Blade who in return has fathered...Guess who!The illustrations are amazing. There are pictures that depict children of the forest, giants and first men! There is a freaking picture of OTHERS! You get to see the real Iron Throne and castles like Winterfell and Casterly Rock in all their glory, as envisioned by GRRM when writing the books. Look at the real Irone Throne!Needless to say, no TV show has enough funds to create this stunning world so these illustrations really help the imagination. This one is the real Dragonstone!The last artwork left me with a very heavy heart since it actually depicts Rhaegar Targaryen and Robert Baratheon meeting at the Ruby Ford during the Battle of the Trident and I am very fond of Rhaegar.I really enjoyed WOIAF and I took my sweet time reading it. I don't think it's a book for everyone. This is the kind of book that only the diehard fans enjoy, the ones that have come to live in this fantasy world and are always thirsty for extra information. So I recommend this book to those fans of ASOIAF that will have to join me in therapy when this series is finally over.