This book is exceptional: the art work is beautiful and the history, of a fantasy universe, is well defined. There is much new material from Westeros to be found in here. I’ve read A Song of Ice and Fire four times, yes four times, and have still found this book to be incredibly informative yet at the same time wonderful.  When I pre-ordered this, several months ago, the first thing that stuck me was that I was going to be reading the same material again: I presumed this book, would contain the myths and tales already mentioned in A Song of Ice and Fire, and was just another marginalised attempt at selling another Game of Thrones related book. I was wrong, thankfully. This book has capitalised on the historical characters and has gone into the depth of their origins. For example, Nymeria is mentioned in the series, but we know very little about her other than childish fancy; the book chronicles her origins and how she ended up as princess of Dorne. This book contains lots of new material from Westeros and is an excellent addition to anybody’s A Song of Ice and Fire book shelf, or case (in my case!) The descriptions of the children of the forest and how they became virtually extinct was also very insightful. This is a full history of Westeros: the book is divided into many parts; the first covers ancient history. It then goes on to give a detailed account of Aegon the Conqueror’s conquest along with his reign. This is followed by detailed accounting of each Targaryen King, ending in Robert’s rebellion. We then see how the historical events affected each major house and some of their major happenings. The book ends with a history of the lands beyond the sunset kingdom: the free cities and other lands. The book is over three hundred page long and is well worth the money. This history feels very authentic; it is written as if by a maester of the Citadel; it almost feels as if you are in Westeros and you have picked this up off some lording’s bookshelf. The pages are tarnished in a brown like colour with stains and patches appropriate to that type of parchment. The reference to other history books, of Westeros, also adds to this affect. Considering that very little of this was written by George R.R Martin, the quality is still there. I’m sure he would not have let this be published if it was lacking. Furthermore, the scholar who “wrote” this is bias in his opinions which is a product of the incestuous lie we all know so well. He believes the Baratheon’s, namely Robert, to be the saviours of the kingdoms. This is unsurprising considering that they broke the mad king’s tyranny. So, he pledges his support to Tommen Baratheon at the end of the book which is quite amusing really and emphasises the authentic feel of this book: how a scholar, a common man, can believe the lies of the ruling class.The artwork in this is gorgeous; the images of Dragons and Targaryen kings are fantastic. In here, are some of my favourite depictions of characters, races and kingdoms. My favourite, is the image of the King who knelt. The character images are better than those in the graphic novels and many are superior to those in the television show (I’m talking about in terms of armour and clothing not actual people from the books or TV show.) For example, how a typical knight is portrayed or how a castle looks.To those that say this should be published after the series has been written: read this and you will see you are mistaken. This book is a history of Westeros: the events in here happen before A Song of Ice and Fire; this book is a companion to the series; it goes into the depth of the history and helps the reader understand, completely, how the seven kingdoms came about. So, this book could have come out after A Storm of Swords and not affected anything.To the reviewers who have just posted a stupid comment on here telling George R.R Martin to hurry up: get a life! Have you actually read this: the book in question! The books will take as long as they need; I’m happy to wait until the author is happy with his work and wants it published. Would you rather him publish something incomplete and not of the same quality as the rest of the series? In the meantime, enjoy these side projects and read his other books. Or, another suggestion, you could just read something else rather than being all whinny, there is plenty out there! Don’t get me wrong, I cannot wait for the next book but people who post stupid comments on here just look like morons. To conclude this review, this book is a companion to A Song of Ice and Fire: it delves into parts just mentioned in the series so consequently is worth both your time and money.Facebook| Twitter| Insta| Academia