OKAY I FINISHED READING PJO FOR THE FIRST TIME I FEEL SO ACCOMPLISHED I mean this is soo many people's favourite series and I'd never read it but now I have ! I feel like a true reader !Anyway, I got to see my mans Percy Jackson go from a scared 12 year old who wouldn't breathe in Ares direction for fear of pissing him off to a 16 year old boy who pretty much told all the gods to go fuck themselves because they're disrespectful trash and I'm living for it
“She looked at me, like she was drinking in the fact that I was still here. And I realized I was doing the same thing. The world was collapsing, and the only thing that really mattered to me was that she was alive.” 
Okay so this was definitely my favourite of the series I loved how everything came together and all the character development and getting to see so many gods in one book. It was super fun and full of action plus my heart was FULFILLED with that Percabeth content. I love the characters in this series so much. That is mostly what kept me so invested in finishing this series🌲 Percy Jackson is the sweetest, funniest and most precious bean. I love him. He kind of reminds me of Harry Potter and I do love Harry Potter. He's also super impulsive and doesn't think things through, but I liked how he developed as a character around that. Anyway, he is so endearing and I love him. 🌲 Annabeth Chase could punch me in the face and rob my home and I would thank her. I LOVE HER. What a wise, badass legend. Deserves the world. She did the MOST for the camp and I just love her so much. 🌲 Grover Underwood absolutely hilarious and also so sweet. I loved his friendship with Percy and what happened to him at the end. He's so loyal and an absolute dork and also deserves the world. 🌲 Luke Castellan HE HURTS MEEE. I was surprised at how much this book broke my heart in regards to Luke. He deserved better but I loved how his story ends and I was so surprised in how invested I ended up in him considering he's the villain throughout the series🌲 Rachael Elizabeth Dare she was involved in this more than I expected but I liked it! I really liked her character but hate how Riordan tried to assassinate it by putting her in that weird love triangle. I am glad her and Annabeth made up they deserve to be best friends not enemies🌲 Nico di Angelo I LOVE MY SON. An Iconic Legend. I am so excited that Heroes of Olympus follows him more because I literally love him so much.
“It's hard to enjoy practical jokes when your whole life feels like one.” 
okay but that ROMANCE I am SO GLAD that finally happened. Half the reason I finally read this series was because I wanted to be invested in this romance everyone loves and I surely am. I am so glad at how things worked out for them and the slow burn romance really gave me life. What a Blessing. I just wish it hadn't been hindered by the whole love triangle things, it was annoying, especially since it was boring to make Annabeth hate Rachael when they could have been friends.I also really liked how everything isn't as it seems the entire prophecy, the spy, and the end. I was SHOOK by some of the plot twists and how things turned out which was so surprising! I thought I would guess everything that happens but I did not. I loved the amount of backstory we get in this especially about Luke's past and the time he, Annabeth and Thalia spent together. It definitely helped to develop Luke as a character and create so much sympathy and depth around him. But on that, I didn't like the way Luke's mum was talked about. the implication she was a terrible mother because she was mentally unwell was ... messy there are lots of really good parents who are mentally ill!On that, one of the things I didn't like about this was some of the ableism and how heteronormative it is. I know that Riordan makes his series more diverse going forward but it still annoyed me here. 
“I found myself staring at her, which was stupid since I'd seen her a billion times. Still, she seemed so much more mature. It was kind of intimidating. I mean, sure, she'd always been cute, but she was starting to be seriously beautiful.” 
I am really glad I finally finished this series! I kind of wish I had read it when I was younger as I think I would have really loved it but it was still fun to read as an adult. The characters really took my heart and these books went by so fast because they were so entertaining. I will definitely move onto Heroes of Olympus because I want to know what happens to my boy Nico.