Grover cradled his laurel sapling in his hands. “Well ... sure good to be together again. Arguing. Almost dying. Abject terror. Oh, look. It’s our floor.” Isn’t it lovely to be with your friends? I mean yeah, it’s basically the end of the world they are dealing with, but hey, at least they have each other to argue while they are almost dying, right? You always have to see the positive things. XD Unfortunately the situation in “The Last Olympian” isn’t all sunshine and rainbows though. In fact it’s pretty bad. And I’m not only talking about Percy’s messed up love life here. ;-P”You run away from things when you’re scared.”I stared at her, completely stunned. “Me? Run away?”She got right in my face. “Yes, you. You’re a coward, Percy Jackson!”Ouch! That one hurt. Never thought I’d see Annabeth have a go at Percy like that but I guess there’s only so much a good demigod girl can endure. Sexy red haired beautiful maidens that seem to be interested in your boy are definitely vexing and sort of bound to get on your nerves. Add the apocalypse into the mix and you have a truly pissed off Annabeth. Talk about a solid recipe for disaster! *lol* Despite everything that’s going down I’m glad to say that our heroes got their priorities straight though. I stared at him. “You’re scared of bunnies?”“Blah-hah-hah! They’re big bullies. Always stealing celery from defenceless satyrs!”Okay, now that we dealt with the evil bunnies we can finally focus on the important things. Like for instance the huge storm named Typhon that’s coming for New York and the army of enemies that wants to destroy Mount Olympus. Did I already mention that they are led by Kronos himself? Nope? Oops! But hey it’s just a minor detail, nothing to worry about! ;-) Our heroes got this! Totally! I mean Percy didn’t really spare a telkhine because he had a cool Li’l Demons lunchbox! Always those rumours... I already told you our heroes got their priorities straight! XD”Really, Peter Johnson, how long will it take for you to recognize me on sight?”“About as long as it’ll take you to figure out my name,” I muttered.And Percy still didn’t lose his sarcasm, let alone his touch! *lol* One of the best things about this entire book was the way Uncle Rick once again managed to weave old Greek myths and legends into his story. I’ll always be in awe of his genius! <3 I mean alone the story of Silena and Clarisse!!! Hell Hades, that was so cleverly done I can only take my hat off to Uncle Rick! Brilliant, just brilliant! As much as I’m sorry that Silena Beauregard had to die, her being the spy at camp and doing a Patroclus was one of the best things about this book! Also Clarisse going all Achilles on the drakon (equivalent of Hector) that killed her was epic! Plus I’m sure I don’t even have to mention it but of course my baby Nico di Angelo was AMAZING too!! <333”Your death,” Nico said, “would be great for me.”“I’m immortal, you fool! I have escaped Tartarus. You have no business here, and no chance to live.”Nico drew his sword – a metre long of wicked sharp Stygian iron, black as a nightmare. “I don’t agree.” “With great power... comes great need to take a nap. Wake me up later.”How is it possible that this fourteen year old kid rocks so much? He didn’t only defy Kronos but also kind of channelled his inner Spiderman and we all know I love myself some decent Spidey! *lol* But seriously, he’s one of the coolest characters in Percy Jackson and I just can’t seem to get enough of him. I already heard that Nico is going to be a part of another series in this universe too so I can’t wait to read more about him! <3 I wish I could read “The Heroes of Olympus” immediately but unfortunately my library will be closed for a while now and I’ll just have to wait until I can dive into the next series. This said I can’t believe “Percy Jackson and the Olympians” is already over!!! I’m going to miss Percy and his sarcasm (yes he gets an extra mention because he’s so strong he should count as an own personality! *lol*)! This was such a fun ride and a worthy ending for a clever series! XD You still haven’t read any of Uncle Rick’s books?! Well, what are you waiting for?! Go grab it! Happy reading!______________________________Technically I should have lots of time to read now, but since I’m working at an NGO I’ve to work from home. (Sort of tough with a little kid, but I’m managing somehow. *lol*) So right now all I need is something light and funny and a world I’m already familiar with. Which brings me right to “Percy Jackson and the last Olympian”. =))This is the last book and it makes me kind of sad but at the same time I really want to know how it ends. (This better be a happy ending though, because I really need one right now!!! XD)Let’s do this! Percy Jackson and Nico Di Angelo, here I come! <333