“We are the women in the streets the others watch from behind their screens. Accordingly, we are often granted less honor, our bodies assumed to be available for the right price or simply invisible. I have cast a judgmental eye straight back, dismissing the rich women behind the screens as pampered dolls.”Prepare to set sail across the Great Indian Ocean and let Captain Amina take you on an adventure quite like no other. Amina is a notorious pirate with quite the legend behind her but becoming a mother meant she needed to retire to keep her daughter, Marjana, safe from her countless enemies. Yet when a noble woman threatens their safety unless she finds her kidnapped granddaughter, Amina has no other choice but to put her old crew back together and once again ride the high seas.One of the main strengths of this novel lies in its diversity. Each of our main crew members are from different ethnicities and hold different faiths yet there is no conflict between them, there is no prejudice. I have such fondness for the whole crew too. Tinbu our first mate, is a gifted archer but has a knack for getting into trouble. Dalila, my beloved Mistress of Poisons has a reputation for experimenting and blowing things up, but she is a gem and I would happily sail the seas with her. Albeit with one eye constantly upon her! Majed, our talented Father of Maps never steers the crew wrong and he’s so endearingly loyal. Payasam is one adorably useless cat. Together this crew all make the best found family.Raksh is a character who I can’t say much about for spoilery reasons. However, this is one demon who is thoroughly entertaining! Our villain Falco, is nefarious in an unnerving quiet way. With his sweet tongue it’s easy to forget the atrocities he’s committed for the holy crusade, yet it isn’t long until we see his true desire, like most men during that time period, is power. Motherhood is a significant theme throughout and I love how Chakraborty illustrates that in women following their dreams, doing what makes them happy, is inspiring their children to do the same, to be strong. Especially for their young daughters. It was also fantastic to see a middle aged POC female lead display sexual desires and to be so gutsy. Amina makes no apologies for the life she has led and damn anyone who would judge her for it. That’s not to say that her character, nor any other character doesn’t grow, it’s just that they grow on their own terms, not because it is what is culturally or socially accepted.Chakraborty has worked her magic once again and delivered an epic feminist tale. This is a story which celebrates being a mother who longs for more, it is a celebration of faith and a stark reflection upon the atrocities committed by Western invaders. This novel is filled with passion and heart. Yet at its core this is a phenomenally entertaining read with the most loveable ragtag seafaring crew. ARC provided by Harper Voyager in exchange for an honest review.