*** 4.10 ***  Another wondrous Mercy Thompson adventure and another book added to my "really pleasant read" shelf. Mercy's world is full of magical creatures, most of which deserve their monster label. Our part time coyote is once again entangled in a game of life and death, as much as she tries to convince her friends and pack mates that she does not actively look for trouble. Last time the vampires were gunning for her, this time the local Fae are looking for something she is in possession of, though she is not exactly sure what that is. On the wolfpack front there is unrest brewing as well. The power structure is shaky since Adam brought Mercy in and she took her place as the alpha's mate. The cracks in the pack magic, partially created by her long time refusal to be his mate, have lead to power struggles and threaten Adam's authority and leave him open to challenges by other dominant and power hungry wolfs. And also, how utterly ridiculous for a gorgeous, powerful alpha like Adam to hook up with a half breed lowly coyote like trailer trash Mercy!!! What would the other wolfpacks think???So, while it seems that the people who should have her back are doing everything but, and random Faes are also randomly targeting her with malicious intent, she is also faced with trying to find a reason for her best friend to stay alive... Did I mention she is still dealing with the residual panic attacks following a very traumatic experience while under the influence of mind control??? Yea, all this while trying to earn her bacon by working as a mechanic during the day and somehow succeeding in staying sane! Now there is a woman we can use as a role model! This book was not as fluid and naturally flowing as the others up to now, but that did not make it any less interesting and compelling. We learn more about the Fae and pack politics, and we also see the growing devotion between Adam and Mercy. All characters undergo changes and the story continues to expand. We fall deeper into the thrall of Patricia Brigg's writing and are left with no choice but to keep on reading ... I may or may not be bespelled into jumping straight in the next volume... I have to go and chain myself to the book, so I wish all of you happy reading!!!