Series Re-readOriginal Review:“Such a small thing to cause so much trouble.”There is some dissonance in the pack. After the way that Adam introduced Mercy into the pack there has been a little fall out. It seems that some are more upset than others and they might be trying to play around in Mercy’s mind trying to stir up trouble. Samuel is also having troubles of his own. He hasn’t been right for a while and has given up. Mercy must try to find a way to save him from himself and join the wolf and man back together again. While dealing with all of that it seems the Finn as disappeared and someone might be looking for the book on the Fae she borrowed from him.Again this is a great layering of a few stories that overlap. I really felt bad for Samuel as he has given up on his life and was contemplating death. Mercy was a true friend to him and helped in ways no one else could. I really liked seeing the vulnerable part of Adam as he tries to fix the pack and still make sure that Mercy is okay. I really didn’t expect the dissention in the pack ranks to come from where it did but that in itself was a good storyline.A Fae is looking for the book that Mercy borrowed and everyone around her seems to be in danger yet again. Jessie really shined through in this book. I always like her little power plays with her father and how she is still so much a kid but at the same time you can tell she has been through a lot too. I adore the little romance between Gabriel and Jessie as well it is cute and not overdone.My main man Zee is still one of my favorite characters. He is mostly a mystery even now that we have seen through his Fae glamour a few times but it is always interesting the magic he can produce. I really look forward to his grumpiness and find it so funny.“Why is it that all cars are women?" he asked. "Because they're fussy and demanding," answered Zee. "Because if they were men, they'd sit around and complain instead of getting the job done," I told him.”But ultimately beside the world that I’ve immersed myself in I love the love story between Adam and Mercy. They get one another and fight so hard for each other. Adam would literally run into a burning building for her and she would do the same.“I knew he would never leave me, never let me down-because the man had never abandoned anything in his long life. If I hadn’t taken the gold rope of our bond, I knew Adam would have sat on me and hog-tied me with it. I liked that. A lot.”Another fun one in the Mercy Thompson series. But I still gotta know what the heck is up with that walking stick? Will we ever find out?