3.5/5  “It is far easier to be lied to than to acknowledge that you have been lied to.”  I really wanted to love this book. Really. Because the first 20% was so promising. It was so similar to FBAA but still it’s own distinct work and it had a mystery plot beginning and the main relationship actually was fun to read about. That all changed.I guess maybe I just don’t like the whole learning about a new world trope or whatever, but I am not exaggerating when I say 50% of this book was world building and smut. I got so tired of both. It started off fine but it became repetitive both ways. The conversations were like more full versions of the ones we saw in FBAA. It really reminded me of TCOGB in the way nothing happened in the middle. Seriously. This book could have been cut down significantly. I skipped so many parts and didn’t miss a single thing.   “That life for any being is as fragile as the flame of a candle—easily extinguished and stamped out.”  Sera started off as a good MC but she goes through zero change. Her development throughout the novel is really non existent. I think I like Poppy more because we can see her significant growth through the series. For Sera she is less naive so I guess she doesn’t have as much to learn? But either way the ‘twist’ at the end about who she really is was so dumb and was really pointless like can we stop. Nyktos was so much better than Casteel at the beginning but they merged into one by the end of the book so they really are practically the same. He also stays the exact same throughout the entire book.The romance was really more lust like than love and there wasn’t any fluffy moments really which make up romance for me so I can’t say I enjoyed it.All the side characters melted together and none were as good as Kieran, so that wasn’t a selling point. It was nice to see Reaver as a small dragon though!Overall the plot was non existent, the mystery opened in the beginning was forgotten and then explained for at the end very quickly. The last chapter finally gave us something interesting to talk about but then the book ended.So overall I was really disappointed in this but I’ll probably read the sequel because I hope it has more to do with the prophecy at the end and is therefore more interesting. “A monster wouldn’t care if they were one.”