MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListI am a sucker for the cover of this book, that is what made me see what this book was all about. The inside cover of the book is awesome too, it has a beautiful picture of the kingdom, they have these pictures on Amazon. In the beginning of the book it tells how the evil Queen Irina kills Princess Lorelai's father and she is forced out of her kingdom Ravenspire with her brother Leo and a guard named Gabril. For the next nine years they stay in hiding with Gabril and they work on Lorelai's magic so when the day came, when they felt she was strong enough, she would destroy the evil queen. Meanwhile, Lorelai, Gabril and Leo are like the Robin Hood's around the land, they steel from the queen and such and get food to the people that are starving. The evil queen is starving them out and other stuff. Some people killing their families and themselves so they won't starve to death, so yeah, she needs to go. Irina is unaware that Lorelai is still alive since she doesn't use her magic on certain things... I won't go into all of that you will have to read the book! Lorelai did heal a wounded Gyrfalcon who she becomes bonded with and they can talk to each other inside their heads. Lorelai named her Sasha and she is beautiful. See below ↓And in another part of the realm over in Eldr they are fighting a war with ogres. Unfortunately for him, Prince Kolvanismir (Kol for short) finds that his family were killed by the ogres. It's just him and his sister and now he is the King and his people are also Draconi, they can turn into dragons! How damn cool is that?! So Kol and some of his army of dragons and regular peeps are trying to fight the ogres but the ogres have a magic they are using so it's like fighting a losing battle right there. Kol has to come over to Ravenspire to try to ask Queen Irina for help. And as you know, she has a price and blah blah blah.. I hate her. Irina ends up trapping Kol, making him a slave to go after and kill Lorelai... yeah she found out she was alive. But.. Kol had already met Lorelai when she saved him and his two friends lives, they form a bond and he can't kill her no matter how hard Irina pushes him. Oh, and Irina has his heart stored away.. you know, like in the show "Once Upon A Time." You would think she would crush it to death but she didn't. I liked princess Lorelai was strong and she wasn't going to stop until she saw Irina dead. Lorelai also became friends with the dragons and helped them, she also kept fighting to save Kol. She ended up in a bond where they were inside each others heads too. She sent a cool message to Irina through Kol.--->EXCERPT<---Are you listening? she asked.Yes. His voice was faint, nearly drowned out in the insatiable bloodlust of his dragon's heart. Of the queen. Then you let Irina see this. You show her my thoughts, Kol. You tell that lying, cowardly usurper that this is the last day she will breathe Ravenspire air. This is the last day she will look out on the kingdom she has ruined. Ravenspire's true queen has entered the city, and Irina's time is over.Yeah, I liked that :-)A bunch of stuff goes down, and some things that gave me the heebie jeebies and they end up at the castle. --->EXCERPT<---The girl's eyes widened, and she tugged on the collar of her uniform. "But I can't just...you can't just--"Lorelai locked eyes with her. "I am Lorelai Diederich, daughter of Arlen Diederich the Third. This is my castle, and I am your queen. If you want the current usurper of a queen to spare your life in the upcoming battle between us, then you need to leave. Now. Go hide somewhere and don't come back until the morning.So yeah, they fought and stuff and people died and then good things happened. THE END