Get comfortable because this is going to be a long one.  Wow. Just, wow. I'm astonished at just how... Disappointed I am. The Shadow Queen tried my patience real thin. As far as retellings of Snow White go, this is by far my least favorite. Not only was the writing style bland, but get this, the world building, character development, AND the plot were 1) extremely under developed. And 2) Highly unoriginal.  Why the unoriginality? Let me tell you. Have you ever seen Snow White & The Huntsman? If so, The Shadow Queen was almost the EXACT same thing only it tried to combine itself with many similarities to the Grisha trilogy. It failed. Despite the many similarities to the Grisha trilogy, it was full of Russian like names and terms that were LITERALLY thrown at us. I'm sorry do you expect us to know what all them mean already? Yeah I'm sorry but no.  When Prince Kol's father and older brother are killed by ogres in the neighboring kingdom of Eldr, (this isn't a spoiler it's literally in the synopsis.) the responsibility of saving his people falls on him. What does he do? He becomes Queen Irina's huntsman. Oh wow that sounds awfully familiar. The only originality to this was that Kol was a shape shifting dragon.  This book was SO GENERIC. Literally, it had so many tropes *rolls my freaking eyes* got my head hurts just continuing to write this review. The Shadow Queen was generic and boring. It was generic because it has everything else that every YA Fantasy has nowadays. I could make a list and check off all the things that are unoriginal and that are included in every other YA fantasy. Seriously like come on girl, this could've been great. You had dragons in it for crying out loud! That could've been epic! But NO instead we get no background story or explanation behind the magical elements and terms that come in this story. The writing alone could have made this SOOO much better if it had a unique and mesmerizing flow to it but unfortunately, it was achingly dull. As were the characters. Besides having no character development, there was no attachment to any of the characters. (Except Lorelai's brother but yeah.)  While retellings are supposed to be familiar/similar, they have to have their own originality to them that WORKS. Be it the writing, the plot, or a certain element. And while shape shifting dragons is an intriguing element, it wasn't executed well.  The book begins with a "Once upon a time ..." Prologue on how Queen Irina killed the kind and the princess was forced to runway. That was around 4 pages. That's its. That's all the back story we got as to how it began and then chapter 1 starts off nine years later. I don't know about any of you but, I was disappointed. I LOVE backstory. And unfortunately it wasn't deeper explored into in this one.  Before I forget, let me tell you that the last sentence the very last sentence, was the same one Sarah J Mass used in one of her Throne of Glass novels. Only difference was she used her characters name and not Sarah's. And in that moment, I realized that's where the idea of dragons probably came from. From Sarah. And I exploded. Goodbye world, I'm done. The unoriginality of some people.  To top it all off, I believe I am D-O-N-E With retellings. Especially Snow White retellings. Snow White is my favorite fairytale and I just can't. OH! -This has nothing to do with The Shadow Queen- Did you guys see the trailer for The Huntsman: Winters War?? Now that looks good! I enjoyed Snow White and the Huntsman quite a bit. Minus Kristin Stewart as Snow White. Bella is that you? Sorry wrong movie. She just didn't work as Snow White. Or maybe I just didn't like her as Snow White because that's when I found out she cheated on Robert with the director. I sure as hell don't remember.   Anyway, while The Shadow Queen was not for me, it could be for you. I mean I personally know some who don't need to be picking this book up because I know their review would be explosive and they would have absolutely no chill. But I'm not saying names. Now if you're interested on forming your own opinions on this book, go read it.  Oh, I guess that wasn't as long as I thought It would be. I probably forgot some of the things I wanted to rant about but I'm 100% ready to be done with this. -Xoxo, Joel.