1001/5THIS.WAS.INCREDIBLEI'm convinced this series was written for me. I'm also DOOMED to shamelessly love it. I feel like I'm in a powder trance after this book, HOLY SHIT. I once again dropped all other priorities to read this and ended up devouring it in two days. Definitely my favourite read of 2017."Every night he's looking for the eye behind the flintlock."So I thought book one was incredible, somehow this book was better. I just need to scream *screams* *screams some more* *loses voice*. The amount of fangirl feels I have right now is ridiculous. The plot this time revolves around Tamas invading Kez and failing miserably, Taniel is too busy smoking dope in a mala den to give a shit & Adamant won't stop at nothing to rescue his family from an insane power hungry man. “There is nothing that will make a man more desperate and more capable of violence than endangering his family.” It is as good as it sounds. IT WAS SO AMAZING! I loved every second spent reading this book. There was so much death and I love DEATH. There was also badassery, amazing character development, magical explosions & lots of battles. The action did not stop once, seriously, I'd go to put the book down and decide to read one more page, next minute I've read 100 because I had to know what was happening, it was so fast paced like I couldn't keep up. I love Flintlock fantasy so much and it's definitely one of my favourite sub genres of fantasy and am officially addicted to all things to do with guns & magic.  can we all just stare in awe over the sexiest grandpa alive. 😍I literally loved all POV's. I even enjoyed Adamants & love Nila so bloody much now. My favourites are still Taniel & Ka-Poel, Tamas (sexiest grandpa alive *dies from swooning*) and Bo. But I love all side characters too, except the baddies, they suck. Also there was some bitches in this book who picked on my baby Taniel, I WILL STAB THEM IN THE EYE WITH A RUSTY SPOON. I only have one wish and its to get my ship in the last book. I HOPE IT HAPPENS. “You missed the morning’s festivities,” Bo said to Adamat. “You call torturing a man ‘festivities’?” Adamat asked. “I’m not a good person,” Bo said.” Recommended to all fantasy lovers and everyone who appreciates sexy 60+ year old main characters.*Sorry but I can't write a more coherent review right now, I'm all out of black powder*P.s I'm ironically now a Powder Mage from snorting gun powder.*nose bleed*P.s.s. I NEED TO EAT HEAPS OF BECAUSE MIHALI CAST A FOOD SPELL ON ME. (Jokes, I'm just a pig & kinda wish I had the excuse I was under a magical food spell) “Let the Kez come,” Tamas roared. “Let them send their greatest generals after us. Let them stack the odds against us. Let them come upon us with all their fury, because these hounds at our heels will soon know we are lions!”  Review for Promise of bloodRating so far;Promise of Blood - 1000/5The Crimson Campaign - 1001/5Actual rating so far - 10/10