*** 4.75 ***A buddy read with my friends @ BB&B! Because we love Flintlock Fantasy!!!I wish I had the time and was not on my phone app, so I could write a review worthy of the story of those very human and very compelling, imperfect Powder Mages! I wish I had the skill to write it in a way which would express the beauty and power of the simplicity of the prose the author employees to deliver the gritty details of a world in the flames of war. I wish I had slept since the moment I started this book and the short stories surrounding it, instead of staying up every minute I am not busy with work and trying to engulf as much of the action as possible! But alas, not everything we wish can come true, so I am left with the meager ability to write couple of sentences in the middle of a lunch break on my smartphone while trying to ignore all the commotion that surrounds me... This is the second major book in a three books ark with several shorts thrown in for some spice:-) The firs book was obviously a learning experience for the author, who even then did a pretty decent job with it. After all, if you have a good idea and have a good plan of how to structure it, pace it , and deliver it to your readers, you are almost set. The writing style and ornamentation was an afterthought... Here, the construct is still very strong and powerful in its own right, but the author has grown tremendously in the packaging and the way he communicated it with us.!!! I am very pleased that he stuck with the simplistic approach, despite his newly acquired ability to use as much ornaments as he would like - in moderation is the real talent!!!The characters grew, became real Infront of our eyes and their motivations and formative thought processes​ were unraveled as we spend more time with them. The inspector, the Field Marshall, the brave soldier, the lone wizard surviver, the laundress, the families cought in the middle of other people's wars and machinations, the players who pull the strings, they all create a world of extremes, textures and visceral experiences which deliver a true punch to the gut! I was rivited to the pages and was left hungering for more! My favorite character is Ka-poel, but I have to admit that Tamas's larger than life personality, with all of his major faults, steals the show hands down. No wonder Taniel is so tortured by trying to not just compete, but from the effort to break even with his father... Living under his shadow must be a killer on his self esteem and need to find his own place in life... Overall, this book was much better than the previous and I hope the next one is even better! I want to recommend it to everyone, although I think not every very young person would be able to appreciate all the implications and true motives. There is violence - it is war time after all. So maybe PG 13... But do give it a try!!!Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!