3.5/5ish starsThe Skinny:Drizzt Do’Urden, is born into the vicious society of the drow elves. Raised primarily by his sister, Vierna, and later Zak, Drizzt learns the ways of the dark elves. Something is different about Drizzt though; in many ways he is unlike his evil drow kin. While those around him give themselves over to pleasing the Spider Queen, Drizzt finds it exceedingly more difficult to function in a world that goes against his inner morals.The review:There were several things about this novel that made it unique from a lot of other fantasy novels I have read.One of the most distinctive aspects of this novel is the role that women play in the drow world. I have read about strong women in fantasy in the past, but this book takes the cake. In the drow society, the women are the total rulers; they dictate the entire society, and treat men as if they are beneath them. The women have no problem demonstrating their authority over the men through the use of their snake headed whips. P.S. The snake headed whips are about as awful as they sound. The men are basically there to support and aid the women in gaining higher and higher positions in both the drow households and the larger society. The women have no qualms about demanding respect, and beating or killing off those who hold them back. *The woman in me loves the fact that the drow female are so powerful, yet at the same time I see them for what they are: evil.*Another distinguishing aspect of this novel is the total and complete evilness of the drow society. There is absolutely no mercy; the drow (except for our beloved Dizzt of course) are wholly obsessed with power and title will do whatever it takes to get more of it. While I appreciated this book for its uniqueness, it still felt a little lacking. When I read some fantasy books I am frantically highlighting beautiful descriptions, epic battle scenes, etc. While reading this book I highlighted a grand total of about four lines. It is not because I didn’t enjoy this book, but rather the writing just wasn’t as captivating as some other books I have read (SANDERSON!). Overall: I am extremely happy to have finally read about the famous Drizzt! I will be continuing with the series, because even though the book lacked in the beautiful writing department, the plot was still pretty kickass ;)