*** 4.75 ***"...“Never underestimate the human capacity for stupid, illogical, and petty behavior.”..."This book was amazing! It was not extraordinary in any specific way, just really, really good in many ways an Epic Fantasy could be good in. It has an interesting culture, a lot of manipulations for political power, a ton of battles, a wonderful romance, which on its own is a miracle for a Fantasy of this type, and most of all, it never crossed into the overly-done category in anything!!! The only thing I thought was that maybe it could have been split into couple of books, not because it had too much description and lamentation or angst, but because it had stuff happening for at least two books!!! To top it all of, we have some wonderful characters which compliment each-other and make the story relatable and easy to feel like you are a part of it. It is a long books, but darn it, I did not want it to end! Now I am going to try to be very patient and wait until the next book, because I am reading it with some friends and it is a joy to share in the experience! Lady Mara continues to fight for the survival of her Family Clan and her son and heir. After the abuse she had to overcome in book one, Mara never even considered that she would ever be able to be intimate with another man, but then the slave from the Barbarian world Midkemia, Kevin, enters into her life and she learns some things about life:):):) The Old Acoma retainer and confidant Nacoma and the grizzled general Keyoke completely stole my heart and some of the most touching and emotional scenes included one or both of them. The villain of this book was the Minwanabi Clan leader and he made life miserable for the Acoma and all of their friends. The Great Game of power and influence was at its finest and the Great Council took some mortal shots... And of course, her ex-brother in law is still as petty and vengeful as always, something we can always count on. I liked Kevin and the influence of his culture that he brought onto Mara's thinking, but I was also not happy that the influence was not equally distributed both ways. I was very aware that there was a great imbalance in their stations, big enough to make their relationship unattainable for a longer period of time, so I was glad that the door was opened for an old friend of ours from the Magician, Hokanu, whom I personally like much better. We also had a cameo by the Magician himself - Pug/Milamber had a very significant role not so much on page, but as consequences of his actions and how they affected the Tsurani culture. Overall, this was one wonderful book and I will recommend it to all the fans of the Fantasy Genre! It is a tour de force at is worth every moment devoted to it! Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you Need in the pages of a Good Book!!!