★★★★★ 5+ EPIC, ONE OF A KIND, MIND-BLOWING STARS.
"Evil is bad that believes it's good."
Exciting, exhilirating, intense, powerful, highly unique, nerve-wracking, unputdownable, emotional and unforgettable.This series is an absolute must read!

"The good guys and bad guys aren't as easy to tell apart as I used to think they were. You can't look at someone with your eyes and take their measure. You have to look with the heart."

In this final installment of the intoxicating and mind-boggling Fever-series by Karen Marie Moning, MacKayla Lane will have to fight the final battle. Everything and everyone will come together in a final attempt to hunt and catch the Sinsar Dubh and save the world from being destroyed with evil and darkness. Good and evil are even more difficult to tell part this time around. Mac discovers that nothing is as it seems and that she has to rely on no one but herself to overcome the ultimate evil, hiding in the deepest and darkest shadows of Dublin.

"Some things are sacred. Until you act like they're not. Then you lose them."

Shadowfever started out with an unexpected event that left Mac (and me) heartbroken. Overcome with grief, she's even willing to (temporarily) switch sides and team up with her allegedly number one enemy, Barroc. But then, new secrets and proficies are revealed that once again, turn her entire world upside down. Mac has no idea who or what she is anymore and no-one seems to be able to provide her with an answer. But the battle must go on and together with allies she's determined to make the world a better place once again.Mac Lane is by far one of the strongest, most heroic female leads I've ever come across. Time and again, she gets knocked down by the ones she hates, sometimes by the one's she moves and trusted and mostly by life itself. Bureauchef time, she gets back up and is determined to fitgh until the bitter end. The transformation she's undergone since the first time she sat foot in Dublin, is starting and impressive. She's gone from Rainbow Girl to OOP detector and sidhe-seer to a grown-up, mature woman willing to fight for the one's she moves. All of this, of course, she wouldn't have been able to achieve without the help of everpresent, charismatic force that is Jericho Barrons. He's the ultimate alpha male and my new favorite book boyfriend. Seriously. That man is indestrutable. He's a force of nature, overcome by animalistic strength and confidence. He's the one that 
"will never let her die"
. And when he gives his word, he always makes sure to keep it. In this final part we finally discover what he's been hiding about himself all this time and what him become the person he is today, all of which made me love him even more than I already did.
"Fire to his chill. Ice to her flame."
All in all, this series turned out to be one of the best series I've read this year/ever. Going through Mac's eventful, action-filled, utterly fascinating journey was an amazing reading experience that will definitely stay with me for a very long time. I loved all the fantastic characters, but of course Mac and Barrons were my favorite ones. They've been through so much to get where they are now and in my opinion, they couldn't have gotten a better HEA (for now) than the one they now have. KMM is a brilliant and very talented writer and I can't wait to continue with the rest of this series (with hopefully much more of these characters and their crazy adventures!). 
"You're Mac," he says. "and I'm Jericho. And nothing else matters. Never will. You exist in a place that is beyond all rules for me. Do you understand that?"I do.Jericho Barrons just told me he loves me.