Originally read from January 19 - 22, 2011*FAVORITE BOOK OF 2011*
"She warms his frost. He cools her fever."
I've been asked many times what my favorite book is, but I don't think I've ever answered that question adequately enough. After reading this book, though, I think I finally have my answer: Shadowfever is the best book I've ever read. The book starts off exactly where the previous one left off, with Mac stunned after killing the beast. The first 5 or so chapters are heart-wrenching to read because KMM is such an awesome writer. I love how tangible Mac's pain is, it almost made me cry myself. But among the bleakness comes a certain chapter from a certain other character, and I swear, my heart sang, I was so happy. After that, no situation was enough to get me down for the rest of the book. About the characters: Mac is freakin' amazing! I can't believe how well she dealt with whatever was thrown her way, when I know I would have committed suicide just a few chapters in. But she kept at it, and eventually developed into the second-strongest heroine I've ever come across in my novels.Dani is also pretty awesome in her own right. I see lots of potential in her, and I loved the chapters from her perspective. A huge twist regarding her, but I have my fingers crossed for a spin-off series featuring her and Christian. And Barrons...*sigh*, where to start? There's way too much to say about this complex man, but suffice it to say that after reading about him, all other heroes fall miserable short of accomplishing the "Tall, Dark, and Handsome" persona. 
"Dying is overrated. Human sentimentality has twisted it into the ultimate act of love. Biggest load of bullshit in the world. Dying for someone isn’t the hard thing. The man that dies escapes. Plain and simple. Game over. End of pain. Alina was the lucky one. Try living for someone. Through it all—good, bad, thick, thin, joy, suffering. That’s the hard thing."
The plot was epic. I think in the ten-or-so plot twists in this book, I only foresaw about one. Which is HUGE and half the reason I love this series so much.The ending left me speechless, ecstatic, and about a million types of happy. It was an open ending, the kind that wraps up the plot but still leaves lots of stuff for us imaginative types to go on. For all of you who have read the previous books in the series and can't imagine a HEA ending whatsoever: it's true what Mac said in the beginning, she does hold a lot of joy by the end. So keep reading, because it's worth every second!And for the rest of you who haven't even started this series: READ IT!!!