War, War never changes. The Heroes unflinchingly chronicles a 3 day battle between two warring nations. It's a story filled with visceral fighting, complex characters and constant danger and suspense. For me this is the best of Abercrombie's standalone novels and is on a par with his 'First Law trilogy'. Being a massive Abercrombie fan as I am the fact that this is my favourite of his works says a lot. The Heroes combines Abercrombie's dark fantasy with a war story and while the entire novel revolving around a single battle limits the plot in some ways it still manages to be inventive and gripping.A brutal land war serves as a brilliant backdrop to Abercrombie's typical cynicism and exploration of human flaws. The 'shit rolls downhill' philosophy espoused throughout is reminiscent of the Wire and one of my all time favourite war stories (and TV shows) Generation Kill. In perhaps Abercrombie's biggest subversion of classic fantasy to date he mercilessly describes the pointlessness and brutality of a Medieval land war. There's not a force of pure evil bent on world domination nor a prophesised hero to be found. Instead we see scheming politicians, bloodthirsty warriors and grunts just trying to survive.The character I most wanted to read about in this book was Bremer Dan Gorst. He was one of my favourite minor characters in the first and third (especially the first) books and I was excited to get inside his head. Ultimately this was probably my biggest disappointment in the book. Gorst is shown to be a typical Abercrombie protagonist: selfish, neurotic and flawed. While I normally like this in Abercrombie's work and feel it makes his characters more realistic I felt that Gorst was completely different from the character I liked so much in earlier books. In the first book especially Gorst seemed the epitome of Logen's 'seem less than you are' philosophy. Gorst gave the impression of a stupid brute but was in fact a brilliant swordsman and was implied to be incredibly intelligent.. I admired his complete disinterest in what people thought of him and seeming scorn for attempts to be liked. In the first book everyone at the Contest hated him and yet he cooly demolished all the snotty fan favourites. In 'The Heroes' he completely abandons his plan to kill an arrogant noble who beat one of his friends because they complimented him. His constant, annoying desire to be liked seemed completely at odds with his personality in the trilogy. Also in the first book when he lost the contest (because Bayaz completely stole his rightful win, his first dick-move in the series but not his last...) he was the bigger man and immediately congratulated Jezal for his undeserving win. In The Heroes he is a whining man-child constantly trying to blame others for his failures. Based solely on this book Gorst is an interesting, complex character in his own right however I was still disappointed with how his (previously awesome) character seemed completely changed from the previous trilogy to suit the needs of this book. I also noticed these dramatic changes in character's personalities to suit the plot occurred with other characters as well (Black Dow, general Kroy). While it makes sense that people would change over the 10 years or so since they last appered in the series it was still jarring. I understand Abercrombie's desire to make Gorst less perfect in the typical mould of his protagonists but... WTF Abercrombie? Did you have to destroy one of your coolest minor characters? WTF. Probably my favourite POV character in this book was Finree, who's become my favourite Abercrombie POV female character to date. She's even surpassed Carlot Dan Eider as my favourite Abercrombie female character and is now among my favourite POV characters full stop. Unlike Abercrombie's other female POV's she isn't a scarred, impossible deadly warrior woman. Finree's skills are politics and intrigue. I've never liked 'warrior women' in fantasy especially when they're used as excessively as with Abercrombie. I've always found them both improbable( there were ALOT of barriers to a woman fighting in most societies throughout history, that most male authors tend to ignore) and unfair in how they imply that the majority of women who aren't warriors are inherently weak and worthless. Despite her flaws I found Finree a really likeable and admirable character. My other favourite character was Curnden Craw. Craw was a really atypical Abercrombie protagonist: an honourable man in a world without honour. His interactions with his 'dozen' were a really cool study in the camaraderie and trust that develops between soldiers in war and was one of my favourite parts of the book. It also reminded me of the Northman crew in the original trilogy. (I loved those guys and was super bummed about how the trilogy ended for them). 'Red' Bek provided interesting parallels to the typical Abercrombie characters with bloody pasts. His desire to be a warrior followed by his experiences of the horrors of war provided a nice contrast to the cynicism and experience of the hardened warriors who comprise the main cast. As a sidenote I didn't understand the point of Corporal Tunny. He didn't interact with any of the other main characters and didn't have any real effect on the battle. Other than the main POV characters we get some brief POV's from other characters. 2 of these were really interesting as in the first the POV character is killed and the narration passes to his killer who is killed in turn and so on. This was really well written and creates a mounting sense of genuine danger to the characters especially when a major POV character takes over. In another chapter we follow a command as it is passed, along with the narration, down the line from the general. This scene shows us the arguments that can exist even among the same side in a war. While the third chapter like this, which this time just jumped around randomly, was disappointing this was still a cool feature that broadened the perspective on the battle. Highlights included a good soldier reflecting on his girl at home as he dies 'she'll probably marry her cousin, terrible business that', two officers (validly) criticising each other in consecutive POV's and a mortally injured cavalryman leading a doomed charge. I also enoyed how Heroes presented war as a hypocritical, horrific endeavour without ever becoming preachy or self righteous. In conclusion this is a great entry into the world of one of the best fantasy authors around as well as a great war story. Not for the faint-hearted but definitely worth reading.