The biggest surprise of 2022?I have postponed picking up The Heroes for a long time, even though I am a huge fan of Abercrombie. Prior to reading The Heroes, I had read 7 of The First Law books – but there was one specific reason why I was worried about reading this book. I have been told repeatedly that The Heroes is a massive battle from beginning to end, and my least favourite parts of fantasy books is usually the fighting. So, what was my experience reading this book?The Heroes is arguably my biggest surprise of 2022. Not only did I enjoy this book, I LOVED IT! While it is true that this book focuses on a large battle (or battles), the focus in this story is very much on the characters, the themes and the different experiences people have in war. Let’s start talking about the characters. As always, Abercrombie’s character work is top-notch. It is astounding how well Abercrombie is able to flesh out each character in this book. Each character has such a distinctive tone and voice and is deeply flawed. Almost none of these characters are likeable, but Abercrombie is somehow able to get you fully invested in everyone’s story. However, what really makes this book stand out is the exploration of role models, the absurd glorification of war and human cynicism. This book is rather ironically titled “The Heroes”. While we follow the so-called “heroes” of this war, Abercrombie masterfully highlights how flawed our role models often are. Consequently, this book focuses heavily on the downfalls of human nature, which you would think would make this a depressing read. However, Abercrombie’s humour perfectly balances out the “grimness” of the story, making this feel like a very entertaining and thought-provoking read. The Heroes is without a doubt the biggest surprise of 2022 as of yet. I went into this story expecting not to enjoy it. However, Abercrombie has again proven worthy of the title “Lord Grimdark”. The Heroes is a riveting, entertaining and thought-provoking story with incredible characters. I can’t wait to read Red Country next!5 / 5 starsThanks to my Patreons Erin, Peturious, Blake, Mark, Mel, Melissa, Áron Sofus, and Matus.