Oh boy, this is the book that caused such uproar among Ishiguro fans! Before you pick up this novel, please believe me when I say this is going to be nothing like any of his previous work. So if you are resistant to change, you might want to skip this one. Don’t expect it to be The Remains of the Day, and definitely don’t think this is going to be the next Never Let Me Go. In fact this book won’t even be set in our own time or even plane of reality. On the surface of it all, The Buried Giant is essentially a fantasy novel.Before you are going to throw in the towel though, let me assure you that The Buried Giant still has the impeccable prose and the craftsmanship one comes to expect from Ishiguro. If all fantasy novels were written like this, I wouldn’t struggle so much with the genre. Under its surface, there are philosophical musings and literary allusions, exploration of death and morality, and of course the heartbreaking finale that suddenly explains everything and leaves you breathless. I admire authors that take a step outside of their comfort zones, and Ishiguro surely made a leap here, even by his own standards. I enjoyed his work before, but now I’m really paying attention to this guy.The story begins literally with a blank slate. We are introduced to the world where a strange calamity, referred to only as “the mist”, makes everyone forget most of their lives. The inhabitants of the village, where elderly Beatrice and Axl reside, go through the motions every day, each one not unlike the other, and never wonder why they cannot recall things that should never be forgotten. One day Beatrice vaguely remembers that the two of them have a son that lives in a different village, and convinces Axl to travel there so they could be together again. On their way they meet fascinating characters, including one from the Arthurian legends, and the peculiar boatman who just might be a more formidable figure than what’s revealed at first. As Beatrice and Axl remember more, and further details about “the mist” are revealed, so does the story unfold before the reader.So you think you are not a fantasy reader? Do ogres and pixies turn you off from any book that dares to mention them? Never fear. These are just devices used to tell the same story of love and loss that any literary fiction utilizes, just packaged differently. Ishiguro comments on what it means to love your country and make cruel choices out of good intentions, and the neverending cycle of war and hate that plagues the world just by exploring an aging knight’s quest. He poses theological questions on merits of true love and eternity, by letting us join Beatrice and Axl on their journey across the country. He makes us wonder whether things are better left forgotten, and how memories affect who we are today and how we perceive the world before us. Combine it with masterful narration, and I don’t even know what else a reader might need to be happy with the book.While Tolkien might bring similar issues of turmoil and moral dilemmas in his work, Ishiguro’s fantasy is only a means to an end, and not the end in itself.If you find comfort in fables, give this book a shot.If you love deeply touching endings, give this book a shot.If you enjoy authors who take chances, give this book a shot.