So this is apparently an odd opinion...but this really, really worked for me. (I think mostly because of the teeth.)Concept: ★★★★Twist on YA tropes: ★★★★★Surprise factor: ★★★★Enjoyment: ★★★★★A mini rant: It's times like these where I really, really wish Six of Crows wasn't such a YA titan that is universally—and sometimes violently—loved. I don't mean ANY disrespect for fans of the duology as I am a fan myself, but I think that The Merciful Crow was prematurely dismissed by some in the YA community for its title, and the mere fact that it had to do with a caste of people called "Crows." Which is nuts, as this book was not even the same thing, at all. Fie is a Crow, a chief-in-training, and she travels with other Crows from town to town. They are the lepers, the bottom caste, the forced nomads, the ones that everyone else can use and abuse. But the Crows have one thing that the other bird castes of the land do not—they are the only ones who are immune from the Plague. When someone gets the plague, the smoke is lit, and the Crows come calling. They take care of the sick and dying and they honor the dead. The land may mock them, hurt them, and execute them, but when the people become ill it is the Crows to whom they beg. And the Crows always come, and they always show mercy. The world of The Merciful Crow is divided into several bird castes. This is not a shape shifting novel—there are no actual birds involved. But each caste of bird is a different social class, and each caste has their own Birthright magic, which displays in some of their castes' witches. It's an intriguing finesse of some standard fantasy decisions, and if that was the only twist on this story's magic, I would have been disappointed. But it wasn't—there are also the teeth. Fie and the other Crow chiefs have a special way with teeth and bones. But specifically, teeth. When Fie touches a tooth, she knows the life of its owner and can call on the innate Birthright magic of the tooth for her own use. So, in essence, if Fie is holding the right tooth.... she can use any of the realm's powers at her disposal. The Crows are ignored by everyone else, so this power goes relatively unnoticed by the other castes...at their own peril.Fie's life changes when their chief saves the royal Phoenix son of the crown. The prince and his bodyguard are on the run. The Crows are trapped—if they don't help the prince, they’ll be killed. If they help the prince, then its up to the Crows to help the prince at their own risk... and once they've finished, be forced back to their life of abuse and uncertainty. It's a lose-lose situation for the Crows, and they know it. But Fie refuses to accept the terms, and she draws an oath from the prince: if the Crows do this, they deserve a seat at the table. They want to be protected and respected. No more murders, no more abuse. To her surprise, the prince and his bodyguard agree. Now they just need to get him to safety. Things I loved: The focus on the plague. I'm a morbid historian at heart, and this focus was great—it has its roots in the Black Death's plague doctors (complete with their masks, etc.) but there are also other elements in there too. I also loved (wrong word choice given the negative connotations...) the parallels between what happens to the Crows on the road with the dark American history of the KKK raids in the South—the parallels are intentional, and well done. Also, THE TEETH. Great magical element, thoroughly enjoyed its integration and how it was used consistently throughout the novel. Really nice, really unique, made it memorable. And, one final yet big favorite: I LOVED that the prince was not the love interest, it was the bodyguard. The prince was spoiled, sheltered, and frankly annoying... so refreshing. And, he stays that way for almost the entire novel! It was accurately paced in that way, unlike other fantasy novels where the spoiled character witnesses one action and then immediately flips to being a good character... nope. This prince was annoying AF for most of the novel, and it WORKED. Loved that. It felt natural, and left room for more growth in the next book. It's literally so hard to find a YA fantasy involving a royal character that feels real, not just endless versions of woke, snarky love interests. So refreshing.Things I didn't love: How short this was. I would have gladly read a novel twice this length. Blog | Instagram