Epic and a satisfying conclusion to the series. The pattern is neatly resolved and the last battle is momentous now the pace is finally upped.The good options are gone Rand. Better to do something desperate than do nothing at all.After reading the main series (as far as published) as a teenager and enjoying the Amazon series I thought it was nice to take a step forward and go to the ending of the series. A Memory of Light is a 1.000 page rollercoaster that brings us the enormous cast of the series preparing for, fighting in, and occasionally dying in, the Last Battle. The world is unraveling with metal turning soft or rusting, the dead walking in visions in the world, bubbles of evil popping up and cracks to infinity appearing everywhere. We start in a Caemlyn lost to a surprise attack over the Saidin roads, becoming a spearhead of a four fronted attack by the light in Kandor, Malkier and Shayol GhulThe world itself is the cost of failure Rand Egwene says and this feeling is well conveyed by Brandon Sanderson. The Black Tower lost, gateways are used offensively and Rand’s capability to reinvigorate nature is like the magical deer from Princess Monoke.Rand and his relationships with women is for me always the weakest spot of the book, but the scenes with Min, Aviendha and Elayne (in relation to the Dragon Reborn directly) are fortunately quite limited. The effortless capture of tone of voice of the gigantic cast of characters is impressive, and we got the first of hand gay character in chapter 18, in the form of a though borderland commander of all things.Moiraine returning and costing an eye while not doing especially much (till the very end) feels a bit wasteful, also a missed opportunity for her to talk to Lan.Matt seems the only one who is not solemn in the circumstances he finds himself in, not developing a more rustic and cooperative approach compared to the previous parts.Perrin in comparison is being kind of useless, the whole Slayer/Perrin plot with a bit Lanfear sprinkled in feels rather superfluous to the plot, especially compared to the importance of Mat his command abilities, ultra luck and ties to Seanchan.We are also offered some very interesting meetings, Tuon and Egwene are epic, or Insane but sincere as the Amyrlin Seat thinks. Tuon taking people from the larger WoT cast for positions in her empire is fun. And in general I warmed up to her and it is interesting how this order loving empress is swept into chaos by her prince of ravens. Also how she immediately tries to set up a kind of Minority Report tribunal when learning if a certain character their skills is hilarious. The dragons of Aludra, upgraded fireworks, also play a key role in glimpses of a new world, with them already taking a key position in the prologue.And then there is the Dark One, being a kind of black hole with accompanying time dilution effect, while the shadow is sowing chaos into the armies of light and harvesting death.The twist and turns are very well and continuously intertwined into the story, with the light being outnumbered 4 to 1, We are at our strongest now, however broken we are.Chapter 37 The Last Battle being 9 hours in the audiobook, finally featuring Demandred who is wow and needs multiple attempts by the Light to be addressed. So many characters appear in the Wheel of Time series, with even bad guys reincarnating or not really being dead and healing being prevalent, that real deaths of characters are something of a shock. We have Egwene anti-balefiring, Elayne has the most scary thing in the book happening to her and Lan as a non-channeler showing a Forsaken the best of swordplay: Some men would call it brash, foolhardy, or suicidal. The world was rarely changed by men who were unwilling to be called at least one of the three.Aviendha using luck to survive is rather meh while Tam Althor shines in a humble but profound way.The conclusion involving Callandor is *chefs kiss* if a bit sudden. Rand his ending after this, thinking of his wives (and the continued apprehension to kill women in general) feels a bit worn and callous after 100.000s dying.Still, what a series, what a conclusion and what a ride. Definitely one of the stronger installments with the higher pacing and all the feelings involved seeing the conclusion to a 14 book ride.We are reborn so that we can better next time.