Full Video Reviews Here:Part I - https://youtu.be/N4YntXtOslQPart II - https://youtu.be/emdpsNrashYAfter 14 previous books, counting New Spring, beginning the final Wheel of Time book felt like something out of a dream. When I began this journey 13 months prior I was non-committal on finishing the series and said my only goal, really, was to stay ahead of the Amazon TV series. Exactly 400 days later, my journey through the Wheel came to an emotional close. As I read the last 25 pages, it really hit me that this was the end; there was no next book like I had the option of for the past year of my life. Stopping only to grab some Kleenex to wipe away the tears and blow my annoying nose, the journey came to a close so suddenly that I felt an overwhelming sense of loss. It wasn't that this particular book is heavily emotional as much as the realization of these friends I had made over the past year were going to be saying goodbye. That might be difficult for anyone to understand that hasn't made the trip through RandLand yet, but those who have understand exactly what I'm talking about.As for this actual book, it is an incredibly satisfying conclusion; even if it isn't perfect. For those who found the series too slow, you'll be happy you made it here as this final edition is a non-stop action thrill ride. The Last Battle, which has spent double-digit books building up to meets every expectation. There is loss, there is triumph, there are moments that will leave your jaw dropped and have you gasping out loud.In the end, there were many ups and downs in this run through the Wheel of Time. It's by no means perfect but it is a journey I think any fan of the genre should make. It's like getting bachelor's degree in Fantasy.400 days, 13 months, 15 books, 4.4 million words. 38 videos.I’ll always love and respect Wheel of Time for not only being an incredible journey, but the one that built Mike's Book Reviews into an actual thing. Started from the bottom now we here. Thank you, Mr. Jordan for creating this world and Mr. Sanderson for completing his work in a way I think he would have been proud of.