No matter how long this series took to come to an end I have loved it since the first book when I picked it up in 1996. I have read it countless times and also have listened to the audio versions as well. Some may find that it took way too long, but in my case it really didn't bother me I enjoyed waiting for each book to come and anticipating about what was going to happen. I loved the details in the books, and have never really found another author who could write like Mr. Jordan, although Mr. Sanderson is doing an exceptional job. I can't wait for the end, but I can also say that I will be sad that this is the end.January 22, 2012 UPDATED REVIEW AFTER READING A MEMORY OF LIGHT!!!!!While I was reading A Memory of Light I felt I really didn't want this series to end. I felt like they should or could continue on. I mean there are some many things they could write about all of this. As I reached the end of the book, something inside of me changed and all I have to say is WOW!!! This was a perfect ending to a perfect and well written series. It ended with so much feeling and emotion. Rand Al'Thore you are the best!!!!!!!!! Egwene I love you Wow.... I knew that you were strong but Wow I hadn't envisioned it to be like that!!!! Mat Cauthon.... I Have to say you were just awesome in the Last Battle really and truley Awesome!!!! Perrin, Perrin, Perrin... for me you have been my least favourite charachter during this whole series, but let me tell you that you are no longer..... you killed it this time and I am truley in awe of you. To all the rest you all had amazing roles such as the Aiel, Aes Sedai, the band, the dragonsworn.... Wow!!! The battles were awesome.... Oh I must not forget Logain, he came a long way during the series and at the end my heart felt for him. I loved seeing all the people giving him thanks for what he did. Androl Kicked ass big time and I loved the determination he had. Where was he during the whole series. Lan you were totally awesome as well and when you took care of buisness (people who read the book with understand) that was just amazing you are badass!!! Thank you so much Robert Jordan for writting this series it has been a beacon of light in my life and thank you Brandon Sanderson for contiuing this series in and exceptional way.