Cross Genre Anthology is a Mixed BagThere is a little bit of everything in this anthology...something for everyone. The only thread tying these wildly disparate stories together is that they are about rogues. There are many different flavors of fantasy stories, science fiction, a Western (although with zombies and a futuristic setting), crime/mystery fiction, romantic comedy, duelling sociopaths a la "Gone Girl", etc.And herein lies the problem with this collection. Since there is "something for everyone" that invariably means that almost any reader will like some of the stories and not others. I found some real gems, other stories I disliked, and still others that were somewhere in between.Most of the stories, even those I did not like, were well written and well put together. I found some reviews on the book blogs whose authors wildly disagreed with me. They liked stories I hated, hated stories I liked, etc.Most seem to agree, however, that this isn't, overall, the best anthology.For me, often, an anthology with a narrower focus, such as Wizards: Magical Tales From the Masters of Modern Fantasy seems to work better.There was a large cast of audio readers. The variety of voices and approaches made things interesting. Most of the readers (of whom a few are well known actors) were at least competent, and some were downright brilliant. There was one exception---British actor Roy Dotrice. He ruined the three stories he read, and even the author bios, which he also read. I think he needs to stop reading audios. He used to be better at it, but has gotten much worse lately. He voices many young characters as crones, ordinary people as British aristocrats, and makes other reading choices that make little sense.I read along in the Kindle version while I listened to the audio.Anyway here's my (very biased) take on the stories."Everybody Loves a Rogue" was George R.R. Martin's well written introduction.Martin's a terrific writer, but (like most authors), he isn't the best audio reader for his own material."Tough Times All Over" by Joe AbercrombieGwendoline Christie did an excellent job on the audio narration.This is a mildly interesting fantasy story taking place in the fictitious city of Sipani. The story is about delivery of an important package that keeps getting sidetracked. Also there are good, strong, kick ass female characters.But I can't get into Joe Abercrombie, for some reason. His stuff is skillfully written, but it's just not for me. I think in this story I just never completely believed it. It never came to life for me."What Do You Do?" by Gillian FlynnA woman changes her job from giving hand jobs to doing psychic readings.It's standard Flynn fare, about a couple of sociopaths out-conning and out-manipulating each other. Although there were a couple of surprises, I find that Flynn's standard writing m.o. gets old fast. After "Gone Girl", I think I'd had enough of this.Julia Whalen read the audio well."The Inn of the Seven Blessings" by Matthew Hughes.Roy Dotrice's terrible narration ruined the story for me.He voiced the young female character as a crone with a (Scottish?) accent.As far as I could tell this was a weird so-so fantasy story about wizards trying to exploit idols and gods to their own (the wizards') advantage and about narrow escapes from cannibals. However, the reading was so bad it was tough to tell if the story was any good.I might have to reread the story to do it justice." Bent Twig" by Joe R. LansdaleThis story was about a couple of hard boiled freelance detectives and crime fighters, in rural Texas, Hap and Leonard. Hap's girlfriend's daughter gets in trouble involving drugs and prostitution (which she seems to have a habit of doing) and the two guys have to rescue her. The story was a bit too brutish and violent for my taste. However, there are plenty of action and fight scenes, if you like that sort of stuff.However, the pairing of Hap and Leonard as professional partners is appealing. Hap is earthy, white, and straight; Leonard, is black, tough as nails, and gay.The story was also extremely funny (although granted, the humor is pretty crude).The humor (nearly) rescued the story for me.Some samples of the humor (describing a local talent show):"a dance number with a man and a woman in a horse suit. The man was the back end, the horse's ass"." 'The Honey Girls are sick...the gospel singers I told you about', said the old ventriloquist...'Their adult diapers probably got bunched up and they couldn't make it' ".The old ventriloquist again: "I fart, it blacks me out and I wake up wearing a tutu".Phil Gigante did a decent job reading the audio. He seemed to verbally highlight the humorous passages." Tawny Petticoats" by Michael SwanwickThis was a Western in an alternate post-apocalyptic New Orleans with zombies. The story was about a bunch of scammers all trying to double cross each other. The eponymous "Tawny Petticoats" is a gorgeous young woman who is the most thorough going con artist of the lot of them. Trust no one. I wasn't crazy about this story, although it was creative and well written.Ron Donachie was a good narrator." Provenance" by David W. Ball. This was one of my favorites in the entire collection.There are Nazi villains, lots of art, and flim flammery in the art world.What's not to like?There's also a surprise ending. (I guessed part of it, but not all of it).The story was brilliantly read by British actor W. Morgan Sheppard, one of the best audio readers in this entire collection." Roaring Twenties" by Carrie Vaughn was another favorite.This fantasy story presents an alternate version of the Roaring Twenties with lots of non-human creatures---weres, fae, etc. at the Blue Moon ClubIt was beautifully and subtly read by Janis Ian. One online reviewer described her narration as " boring". I disagree. I think it was understated, but quite expressive.I really liked this story. It's a slow burn. A lovely witchy businesswomen and her equally lovely companion/bodyguard visit a club for non-human creatures, and some magical mayhem ensues."A Year and a Day in Old Theradane" by Scott LynchI enjoyed this outrageous fantasy story, about some duelling wizards (who use weather, among other things, as weapons) and magical tricksters in a place with all kinds of magical non-human creatures. There's even a tony bar, "The Sign of the Fallen Fire", where some of the characters meet to plan their battles.The main character, Amarelle (who seems to habitually get herself into bad situations) gets herself in trouble with a scheming local wizardess, Ivovandas, who uses Amarelle to destroy the wizard who is Ivovandas's nemesis. Amarelle enlists the help of her friends (all female) to get her out of hot water.This was very well read by Gwendoline Christie."Bad Brass" by Bradley DentonA story about high schools and musical instrument thieves in rural Texas.This tale was well written and well crafted even though it wasn't my cup of tea. The story was competently read by Gill Bellows."Heavy Metal" by Cherie Priest..I loved this story!Something evil lives in the lake. Huge, Bible reading monster fighter Kilgore Jones has come to Ducktown, Tennessee to see what he can do about it.Scott Brick, one of my favorite audio readers, did a great reading here."The Meaning of Love" by Daniel AbrahamA fantasy story about a prince who falls in love at first sight, and his faithful friend and retainer who tries to help him out (doing some devious things along the way).Meh. Not my cuppa.This tale was competently read by Conleth Hill."A Better Way to Die" by Paul Cornell.I couldn't tell if this was a good story or not.Roy Dotrice's terrible rendition completely ruined it for me.He read it like a bad Shakespearean actor declaiming from the stage, making all the male characters sound like histrionic elderly Brits. At least he didn't read the one female character in this as a Scottish crone.Anyway, it's a science fiction story. An older version of a man goes back to help his younger self. There are several alternate paths things can take. "Ill Seen in Tyre" by Steven Saylor.This was a fun historical fantasy story, a homage to Fritz Leiber's "Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser" tales.It's about the (mis)adventures and travels of a Roman boy and his Greek tutor in and around Tyre.Gethen Anthony read it well."A Cargo of Ivories" by Garth Nix was an amusing fantasy story about (apparently) collaborating thieves. There's a mansion (palace?), ships, and various magical beasts including an albino pygmy moklek (apparently a creature resembling an elephant) and a basilisk.This story had great narration by Ron Donachie."Diamonds from Tequila" by Walter Jon WilliamsWonderful crime story narrated by a strange looking film star (Sean Makin) in a film being shot in Mexico.Plenty of action, involving drug lords, DEA agents, Mexican police, shootings, etc. etc.David Greenley did a wonderful reading this tale.The meaning of the title isn't completely clear until the story's end." The Caravan to Nowhere" by Phyllis Eisenstein was one I really liked.It's a fantasy story about a young minstrel with secret powers who signs on to travel through the desert with a caravan trading some mysterious merchandise.It was read by W. Morgan Sheppard, who does a great job."The Curious Affair of the Dead Wives" by Lisa TuttleThis was beautifully read by Harriet Walter.It's a really unique fantasy/horror story of 2 young detectives in Victorian Britain (one female) engaged to find a young girl's missing sister.I really liked this one."How the Marquis Got His Coat Back" by Neil GaimanRoy Dotrice ruins another story (although I don't think I would have liked this one in spite of him).He is only slightly less unbearable here than in the other two.This time the young woman character is read as a crone with an undefined British accent (East End? Cockney? Cornish? Who knows?)There are various other characters read as Irish? Scottish? British? crones.Dotrice seems to be very found of crones, whether the story calls for them or not."Now Showing" by Connie WillisThis was a cute, romantic story (with some crime/spy elements) couched in movie terms. It was entertaining, although nothing great.I'm not sure if I liked actress Molly Quinn's overdone adolescent narration, although it was appropriate for the characters (a bunch of college students). "The Lightning Tree" by Patrick RothfussThis is an intriguing story about Bast, quite an interesting rogue with more than a little fae in him, and the help he gives (for a price) to various locals (mostly children). This was narrated by Rupert Degas, an excellent narrator for this material." The Rogue Prince or, A King's Brother" by George RR Martin.This tale will mostly be of interest to people who are already Game of Thrones fans and have either watched the TV show or read the books. I don't think it really works as a standalone story. It's read by Iain Glen, the Scottish actor who plays Ser Jorah Mormont in the Game of Thrones TV show. His narration was pretty decent, although it seemed a trifle dull in spots.