I loved this book and I’ll give it five stars all day long. If I had any sort of web based skills at all I would insert a gif of Ralphie’s teacher writing on the board; “A plus, plus, plus, plus, plus…..but I don’t. Please use your imagination.I rated this five stars for a couple of reasons. First and foremost, I learned of some new authors that I think I’ll really like. Jackpot! I mean seriously, I got about 4-5 new authors I need to check out and I can most certainly thank Rogues for the introduction. I also stayed up late reading because I could not put it down, always a good reason for a five star rating. I also loved the theme. Rogues? Charlatans? Bad men and evil women? Sign me up! Lastly, this is a behemoth of a book, a fantasy juggernaut somewhere around 800 pages and it will keep you busy for awhile.A quick review of the best new authors who are new to me includes:Garth Nix- “Cargo of Ivories” great story of a puppet and a warrior…(hmm…Hairlock anyone?)Phyliss Eisenstein – “Caravan to Nowhere” a minstrel travelling with a caravan in the desert….oh and he can teleport too.Steven Saylor – “Ill Seen in Tyre” – a student and master in a Roman setting with a nod to Fafhrd and the Grey Mouse (who I thought was an actual mouse all this time, he’s not)Not new to me is Gillian Flynn. I had heard about Gone Girl (oh you’ve heard of that one too?) but it really didn’t seem like my type of book and I assumed Flynn was not my type of author. I was wrong. I absolutely love her style of writing and really enjoyed her story “What do You Do”.Some authors were not new to me and I’ve read them before. Some of my favorite tales from authors I know in this book are:Joe Abercrombie – “Tough Times All Over” follows an object as it changes hands dozens of times in this fast paced fantasy thriller,Neil Gaiman – “How the Marquis Got His Coat Back” a Neverwhere story with the Marquis as the main character. That’s all I have to say about that.Scott Lynch – “A Year and A Day In Old Theradyne” a female thief on a mission for a wizard. Lynch is Lynch, and that’s awesome baby!And last but most certainly not least…..Patrick Rothfuss. “The Lightening Tree” was my favorite story in the book. This is a tale all about Bast who is a central character in the Kingkiller Chronicles. What a fantastic goddamned tale, this reminded me why Rothfuss is one of favorite fantasy authors today (if not THE favorite). My mother always said that if you had nothing nice to say than you shouldn’t say anything at all, so I won’t mention go in to any depth about the stories from Martin, Priest and Lansdale here. Sorry guys (and Cherie)….somehow the stories just did not grab me. The Martin story was OK because I am a fan of SOFIA but it was certainly not outstanding in my opinion.I had a digital copy of this book and now I’m going to buy the hardcover. This book is most definitely collection worthy and I need to posses it!!(Quick note to fantasy fans: oddly enough this book does contain some stories that you would not categorize as fantasy. I would say roughly 3 or 4 of them are not fantasy, there are 23 stories in all.)