I actually reviewed this as part of "Rogues" but the whole anthology isn't that good while this novella is. This novella is crazy and awesome and even crazier than expected. If you're a fan of fantasy you have to read Scott Lynch. It's required guys. Thieves! Impossible heists! Humour! Have I said thieves? Merged review:2.6 stars"Though times all over" by Joe Abercrombie: 3.5 starsI've read only one book by Abercrombie and I was bored to death by it so I wasn't expecting much. Surprisingly I enjoyed this short story, it was fun and quick. I still don't like Abercrombie's writing at all, it's way too flat, but the story as a whole was fun. "What do you do?" by Gillian Flynn: 1 starWhy one star? It's quite simple: when you don't even care about finishing a short story there's no other option. I just don't see how this short story fit into this anthology."The inn of seven blessings" by Matthew Hughes: 2 starsOne word: boooooooooring. "Bent twig" by Joe R. Lansdale: 2.5Average. Not that bad, but not good either. "Tawny Petticoats" by Michael Swanwick: 3.5 starsFinally a good short story. Really cute, and so much fun. "Provenance" by David Ball: 2.5 starsI don't get how this short story fits Into this anthology....but it wasn't bad. "The roaring twenties" by Carrie Vaughn: 3.5 starsGood short story, I wish it had been a bit longer, but still, it was one of the best so far!"A year and a day in old Theradane" by Scott Lynch: 5 starsLynch, you genius. Hands down the best short story, nothing compares to this one. Clever, funny and a gang of thieves that made me think of my beloved Gentlemen Bastards: perfect."We did it and lived. We put ourselves in prison to stay out of prison. To absent friends, gone where no words nor treasure of ours can restore amends. We did it and lived. To the chains we refused and the ones that snared us anyway. We did it and lived.” "Bad Brass" by Bradley Denton: 2.5 starsThe main flaw of this short story is that it was way too long...I mean, I enjoyed reading the first 20-30 pages but then I stopped caring. "Heavy Metal" by Cherie Priest: 2 starsLynch's short story aside I'm actually thinking of skipping some of these short stories. Because, really, what was this?"The meaning of love" by Daniel Abraham: 3.5 starsThis one was pretty cool and I really liked how it ended."A better way to die" by Paul Cornell: 1 starJust no. Boring. "Ill seen in Tyre" by Steven Saylor: 3 starsPredictable but quite cute. I mean this kind of joke is a classic that never gets old."A cargo of ivories" by Garth Nyx: 2 starsNoooo, I loved Sabriel...this isn't Garth Nyx is it? Such a disappointment."Diamonds from Tequila" by Walter Jon Williams: DNFI just didn't care enough to finish it."The Caravan to Nowhere" by Phyllis Eisenstein: 2 starsI'm really tired of reading terrible short stories. "The curious affair of the dead wives" by Lisa Tuttle: 3 starsI don't have much to say, it wasn't bad and it was at least quick so...nothing special but not terrible either."How the Marquis got his coat back" by Neil Gaiman: 4 starsThank God for Neil Gaiman. If in the end I save this anthology it will only be thanks to 3-4 short stories. "Now showing" by Connie Willis: 3.5 starsThis one was cute! I mean, it doesn't really fit into the anthology in my opinion, but it was quite cute and enjoyable. "The lightning tree" by Patrick Rothfuss: 4.5 starsBast is one of my favourite charaters, so...I really liked this short story. He's such an interesting character that I want to know more about him. He's wicked and funny, clever and so loyal to Kvothe...I want more. "A rogue prince, or, a king's brother" by George R.R. Martin: 1 starBoring boring boring.Overall, the anthology itself is a huge disappointment. There are a few stories that are worth a read: "A year and a day in old Theradan" by Scott Lynch, the best one of the anthology in my opinion, "How the Marquis got his coat back" by Neil Gaiman and "The lightning tree" by Patrick Rothfuss. There are some cute stories, but I don't think they stand out.