5 - ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️“Unless you don’t know how to handle an opponent on top of you, and if so, that’s a whole other issue.” “I know how to handle you on top of me,” I challenge quietly. He lowers his mouth to my ear. “You won’t like what happens if you push me.” “Or maybe I will.” I turn just enough that my lips brush the shell of his ear.This book exploded in the book community and with so many hyped books that popped up recently and were sorely disappointing, I was haunted by that experience.I am usually hesitant to clap with the crowd, but it is with absolute delight to say that Fourth Wing cemented itself as one of the best fantasy books of 2023 and it lived up to its hype for me!First of all, let me settle your expectations with this. Is this a literary masterpiece? no. Does it include some totally new and original concept? to some extent but not really. Do you promise the story won't slow down? in some instances it does so prepare for that. Is the writing top-notch? expect modern slangs but I did find the writing style immersive. Is the plot and world-building intricate? it's well-done but this is not Tolkien. But Yaz, then what do you mean by this book being one of the best of the year?Exactly what I said. This book was a gift to me and a reminder of why I love the fantasy genre so much. It kept me enthralled and on edge. I was invested in the lore and world-building. The characters and the setting felt so tangible to me. To put it up simply, I had fun reading every single page.Best part of this book? Dragons.What I loved the most is that the Dragons were not treated as mere beasts. They're majestic creatures with a keen intelligence and play an active role in the story and without spoiling much, I am so impressed with how the author created the magic system centered on the bond between the rider and their dragon. To me that was brilliant and something totally unique.The military college setting was enjoyable and I might sound like a sadist saying this but I loved that there were stakes and no one was safe, I means it's a college for dragon riders right? When someone dies it's treated like every other Wednesday. This is not a school built for the weak, the strongest students survive while the weakest tend to meet a tragic end. The sense of dread creeps up on you because death itself creeps up on the characters not 50 pages in. Be prepared to have your nerves shredded like cheddar cheese.As someone who hardly gets attached to minor characters, I applaud the author for taking the time to flesh out not only the main characters but also the minor characters. It's hard to explain even though the story was simple but it was layered which is why I could not put the book down.Our protagonist, 20-year-old Violet Sorrengail, was raised her whole life to become a Scribe like her father. Violet was content with that kind of future due to her chronic illness, she knows she can't be a dragon rider like her mother and siblings. Well... her mother throws a plot-twist at her and she's expected to join the Riders Quadrant at Basgiath War College.From an outsider's perspective, her mother's decision was a death sentence to her as she would be a prey among many beasts there including the great betrayer's son, Xaden Riorson.“Stay the hell away from Xaden Riorson.”Xaden is a third-year and one of the wing leaders, an enigmatic and intimidating man, and he has a score to settle since Violet's mother is the reason his father was executed.To complicate matters, Violet's older brother was killed by Xaden's father.Now this makes for a deliciously angsty forbidden romance between two enemies. Their chemistry was crackling with tension and pent up emotions. And here's a disclaimer to you dear reader; like with all good things, the romance is marinated with a slowburn build-up. You will be rewarded eventually with a nice spicy meal to keep you sated (but are we ever?).“I can barely count the number of people in this quadrant who want you dead, either as revenge against your mother or because you’re just really good at pissing people off, but you’re still here, defying the odds.”What I enjoyed the most about Violet is not only does she constantly challenge the odds, she is such a relatable character. She's not exactly perfect or lacking in flaws, she feels like a perfectly 20-year-old woman to me and she acts as such. She's the kind of person in real life I would sit with and spill all the tea between us. Sometimes she's reckless and stubborn but that's part of her charm to me. Hope is a fickle, dangerous thing. It steals your focus and aims it toward the possibilities instead of keeping it where it belongs—on the probabilities.”This book joined my list of favorite fantasy romance books of all time and I'm relieved to know that the sequel is only mere months away. I can't wait to return to this world and these characters that I've come to adore so deeply!Tropes in this book:— New Adult Fantasy Romance — Enemies-to-Lovers— Forbidden Romance— Ruthless War College for Dragon Riders— Spicy (2.5/5)— Determined, relatable and fun FMC— Enigmatic and hot MMC— Dragons (each with a personality and voice)— Intriguing lore and world-building— Unique magic system based on dragon bonds— Fun and layered cast of characters— Chronic illness rep— High tension and comic relief— Packed with action scenes in training or battleThe book includes the following triggers: war, battle, hand-to-hand combat, perilous situations, blood, intense violence, brutal injuries, death, poisoning, graphic language, and sexual activities that are shown on the page.