here’s a song called I’m ready to die *strums guitar*In my reviews of Clockwork Angel and Clockwork Prince, I talked a lot about of the things I loved so much within this series. But you know what? I cannot wait to do it all again. This series took an annoyingly large emotional tole on me and my fragile emotions, and it was kind of trashy, but also it made me cry, like, a lot, and I qualify that as a quality piece of media.I’m registering my honest opinion that fun trash is fantastic if you can just get me invested in the characters and feeling the aesthetic. I am really, really, really invested in the ridiculously-compelling-even-when-they’re-annoying characters. I am really feeling the creepy aesthetic and I am really enjoying the creep factor.

“I have come to understand something about novels. They’re not true.”

Oh my god, I’m so sorry if this is like… an unpopular opinion or something, but I love Tessa so much. She’s such a quintessential female character that got ignored because Hot Guys and she deserves better, and if I see any Tessa Gray hate on my timeline I will throw several hands. I fucking love Tessa and she has never done a single thing wrong in her life. She is simultaneously a gentle soul and one of the most savage people in the world and I absolutely adore her. I still love and would die for Jem; he’s a very pure and good soul. He made a lot of really dumb decisions in this book, and I am mostly not annoyed by them because they’re in character for his stubborn personality.Also, Will is an annoying person, but he’s my annoying person. Actually, guys, I really love Will, which “me after book one” would not have classed as something in my future. His development in this book especially is so good, and I trust him, and I love him. LET’S TALK SIDE CHARACTERS.✔Honestly, don’t kill me for this, but Cecily is… I have mixed feelings? ✔Like, she’s cool, just vaguely thrown in the fucking final book of a series, and reads kind of like the girl version of Will, but we’ve still only known her for one book, and I love that finding-my-place conflict but she’s just taken over by a romance plot that is cute but also out of nowhere, and I don’t find her compelling enough to want 20% of the book to be her chapters. I... still like her and it’s fine✔I… actually really like Gabriel. I love that am-I-my-family conflict, I’d die for it, so jot that down. although I’ll admit me liking him was hashtag shocking ✔I really like Gideon too. less shocking✔I’m going to start a Sophie stan club and none of you can stop me, I love my wife who can’t figure out her worth but is really really trying!!✔I’m actually still kind of sad Jessamine didn’t get More✔Who else would willingly die for Charlotte Branwell, the mom friend who is a total disaster at it because she’s like, ten years older than all of the people she’s caring for✔Henry is a good man and a disaster and I love him but how is he still alive✔everyone got fucking paired off in this book and I want to be mad about it but god damn all of it was cute, all these straight people are so cute tf ✔although I do wish to register my honest opinion that this series has a deeply bi vibe and as such, no character within is truly straightSo, all joking aside, here’s my general thought: all of the side characters in this series are really endearing and intriguing and I find them all so shockingly likable, which never happens.Sooooooooo let’s finally talk about the subtextual polyamory. Aka I had to use that line somewhere, aka the reason I like this series so damn much, aka the ot3 of my damn dreams. But I really think all of the characters just… complement each other really well. Jem is more of a sunshine being, and he pulls that out in Tessa, and Will is more forty pounds of sarcasm in a trenchcoat, and Tessa is so much more savage around him, and I find that so endearing and adorable, and god I just want them all to be together.I am not joking when I say I don’t ship any of the three arms of this triangle individually like, nearly enough to love this series all on its own. [I actually like both of the Jem ships more than Will & Tessa, which is ironic because that’s the ship that’s being pushed?] Nope. They’re just… all in love, and it’s beautiful.Also, Jem leans against chairs when Will is sitting in them and it’s so adorable and also, Will threw his hands into the fire for like, one thing for Jem, and wow but people keep burning their hands for people they love.and now for some SPOILERY THOUGHTS: um, so everyone has been telling me I was going to cry reading this, and, uh, I did. Here are the moments I cried at! ✔Where Will feels Jem die, because I have more emotions about Jem and Will than anything else in this fucking book. Also, ✔where Will & Jem talked again during the battle? I was such a wreck. ✔Jem & Will’s final conversation. I finally started balancing my crying a little bit more with several tears shed over ✔Jem & Tessa’s final conversation. And then I sobbed my eyes out at ✔Will dying while Jem played a fucking violin, Cassandra you little bitch I know what you did, and then I cried really hard at ✔Jem coming back at the end. Also, I think I might have gotten myself into tears of laughter over several funny moments. I was howling. 

“I believe that might be qualified as resistance,” Will said, “you know, eating one’s son in law.”

Oh, and just before we go, let me mention that this is… a strangely hilarious book considering how fucking sad it made me. That scene where Gideon and Gabriel write a letter about Charlotte in chapter six? That was literally the funniest thing I have ever read in my entire life. It was the source of all my non-awful tears in this godforsaken book. Anyway. I yelled a lot in this review, but bottom line: yes, this was really good, yes, I loved it, yes, I cried, no, I'm not going to give you my answer on the team Jem vs. team Will thing. highly recommended. obviously.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube