So I have read the book.Now, I'd feel really bad if I had to deleted the whole what-the-fuck-is-gonna-happen conjectures I'd written in this 'review' before reading it, so I'll just put everything into spoiler. (So if you haven't read the book yet, you can open the spoiler as it's not actually a spoiler but only a list of my thoughts BEFORE reading the book.)Will Will Will!We team up with Will!*sing it along*Jem, you're cute, you're sweet, but you ain't got nothing on freaking Will Herondale.Sorry.--- OMG IT HAS A COVER. IT HAS A COVER! AND IT'S GORGEOUS!  It kind of looks like Megan Fox, there. Doesn't it? I think it does. A LOT. I mean IT'S TOTALLY MEGAN FOX THERE.Anyway, it has a cover. F R E A K O U T T I M E. Tessa,  this song is for you, darling. From the bottom of my heart. --- Okay quick recap of what happened in City of Lost Souls and all the ipothetical hints CC gave us: *foul language aheaaaaaaaaad.* (JK. Sort of. I only use "fucking" to underline the concept.)  a) a strong warlock woman helped Magnus put the spell on Clary when she was a kid.  This one's easy. That's Tessa.b) Brother Zachariah enters the scene. This one is much more fucking difficult and has got me pulling my hair out trying to decipher it. [YES, CASSANDRA CLARE, YOU'RE SUCCEEDING IN YOUR EVIL PLAN TO MAKE YOUR READERS GO CRAZY. CONGRATS.]So, here's the thing: Brother Zachariah seems to be more open to talk than the other Silent Brothers. He tells Maryse he had a life, and he would have risked it for the people he loved.It's either Will or Jem. There's no real explanation, because there could've been hundreds of other Shadowhunters who corresponded to that description, but here Cassandra Clare is clearly sending us a message so we're taking it.Now the question is, WHO THE FUCK OF THE TWO IS IT?Maryse mentions the fact that his eyes are covered, so she can't see them. Well duh. I didn't even expect to be able to. By now I know Cassandra Clare better.But anyway: at first I thought it was clearly Will, because of his eyes. His eyes are blue, a blue so dark that it's almost black, and I figured they would attract attention. So I was like, if Maryse can't see his eyes, they're probably Will's. Because blue eyes like his are so much rare than Jem's dull brown one. (I figured Jem would've found a way to get back to normal. Otherwise he wouldn't have been able to survive that long, would he? Not to mention that his pale skin would be noticeable.)But then I slapped myself for being such an idiot.OF COURSE Jem's eyes would be noticeable. They're fucking Asian eyes. *sigh*And that takes me back to the previous question, WHO THE FUCK IS BROTHER ZACHARIAH?c) It's not really a C, it would be more like a sub-close B, but whatever.I'm still on brother Zachariah.Despite my earlier suspicions that we was indeed Will, I'm starting to think that maybe it's Jem.At nearly the end of the book, when I-can't-remember-who asked him if there had been people he really cared about in his life, he replies that he would have risked his life for TWO PEOPLE.And here you're saying, "well, so what? I would've risked it for Tessa and Jem." And you'd be right. But wait.Unless he's a total monster, he also has a sister to care about.So he'd risk his life for THREE PEOPLE, wouldn't he?Or maybe his sister dies. And that is a maybe. Because after that there would only be two people to protect. But still. If he really is Brother Zachariah, then Jem would've been long dead before that. So at that point he should've just said ONE PERSON, meaning Tessa, who's probably still alive.So what? WHAT? Either a) Cassandra Clare momentarily forgot of Will's sister, Cecily; or b) Brother Zachariah is Jem.Oh and by the way, they said Brother Zachariah has a chiseled cheekbone. Didn't Will have a chiseled cheekbone? Or was it Jem? WHO WAS IT? D:d) It's also true that looking at the kids now, I wouldn't know where Jace came from. If Jace had come from Cecily's line, then he wouldn't have the Herondale name. She's a woman, so he would assume the father's name. Otherwise it could be Will's. But if he was, then Will couldn't be Brother Zachariah. But maybe Will and Tessa ended up together, and had children (because maybe Tessa was some kind of special warlock), and Jem became a Silent Brother? That's a possibility. Though there still is something unclear about it: Why do the Lightwoods have Will's features (black hair blue eyes), and Jace does not? I would say that maybe Cecily ends up with Gabriel or something. That way, hte Lightwoods would inherit her features, which are also Will's.But Jace? I don't know what to make of him. I really don't. He MUST come from Will. Because he has the surname. But I don't know how. Will and Tessa are completely different from him :oUnless he ended up with someone else entirely.. e) The book. Clary and Jace find A TALE OF TWO CITIES in Valentine's apartment. I still have to understand what the hell's that book doing in Valentine's apartment, but that'll come in time I guess.What I'm mostly interested in is what Will wrote on it."WITH HOPE AT LAST."NOW, WHAT THE FUCK DOES THAT MEAN?Let's quickly review the story in the book: Lucy (aka Tessa?) has got two men drooling on her: Charles Darnay [aka Jem aka the boring one (don't glare at me, Clary said that u.u)] and Syndey Carton (aka Will aka WOW.)Lucy decides to marry Charles, while Syndey still loves her.In the end, Syndey decides to sacrifice his life to save Charles', and dies.Lucy and Charles live happily ever after. (I would add "with a daughter", but that hardly seems fair since poor Tessa can't have children)So yeah. That is pretty much the story, ignoring all the "irrelevant" events, since we're only concentrating on the romance here.So here's the thing: either a) Cassandra Clare decides to be completely un-innovative (which wouldn't be her style) and goes with the same plot of ATOTC, making Tessa end up with Jem; orb) Tessa ends up with Will once and for all;c) Tessa at first ends up with Jem but then he dies;d) Tessa ends up alone.Knowing Cassandra Clare, I would sadly opt for c or d.Especially reading that "the ruined gold of her wedding dress" line that has us all on the edge.But wait, I wasn't finished, was I? I was still analyzing Will's words.So, "with hope at last." It could mean that, unlike Carton, he has hope to be with Tessa. But that wouldn't seem right. Couldn't he just say it face-to-face instead of writing it in a book? It doesn't make sense.OR it could mean that he too dies, with hope at last that everything will be okay? That too seems too forced.Or MAYBE, just MAYBE, he means tha the has hope at last because Tessa is immortal and he is Brother Zachariah, so they can go on together, if not actually TOGETHER in the literal sense of the word.I can't see any other interpretations for that sentence, and I've been babbling for about half an hour, making this review so fucking long, and the book isn't even out yet. So I' guess I'll stop.I still have to read the teasers for City of Heavenly Fire and the letter from Stephen to Jace, so maybe I'll have more to say after that.You just wait.-- So I just read the famous letter from Will to Tessa. Okay. So scratch my point "e". It's all useless now. *sigh*Update: ohmyfreakingabsoluteshit.In case you don't have a tumblr account, this is what Cassandra Clare just posted on her profile:Now, what. the eff. is this. supposed to mean, Cassandra Clare? WHO IS SAYING THIS?! WHO!?!?? I MIGHT DIE. I MIGHT SURELY DIE BEFORE THIS DAMN BOOK COMES OUT.*taking steady breaths to write a few coherent thoughts* On a macabre side, I'd rather have it be Jem so Tessa'll end up with Will. OR, as afore-mentioned in one of my theories, Jem will die and Tessa and Will will be forever separated because they won't have the guts to get together after that.But if it's Will.. oh shoot. It can't be Will. It can't. :( But what if it is?Of course, thinking about it, it could be about anyone in the trilogy.I focused myself on Will and Jem solely because I love them too much to see either of them dying. So you see how NOT KNOWING is driving me nuts. Why do authors necessarily have to do this? Posting such snippets and then leaving us wondering for another six months, I mean? That is really too cruel.Into the actual review ~I don't know what to fucking say.Seriously.I'm speechless.Once again Cassandra Clare has left me speechless.And this time I'm not sure in a good way.THAT EPILOGUE. Are you for real, Cassandra? ARE YOU SERIOUS?I don't even know how to rate it. Honestly. Throughout the whole book I thought this was going to be perfect but then that epilogue fucking killed me. I just.. It's like I always saw the characters and the story under a certain light but with the events of the epilogue everything has changed.Tessa, how the fuck could you do that? How could you be with Jem after Will? That's what bothers me. Jem was kind, and he was a really good person but you just CAN'T. TELL. ME. Tessa loved him as much as she loved Will. You just can't do that.I'm pretty sure if Jem had never made a move with Tessa, she would have just regarded him as friend. It's Will who had her heart since the very beginning and it's Will she still kept thinking about when she was engaged to Jem. If she'd been with Will, I highly doubt she would've been thinking about Jem the same way.Team Jem, tell me, am I wrong? I think not.I think you could say any single beautiful thing you can think of about Jem, or about the couple Jem and Tessa, but it's FREAKING CLEAR she loved more Will. Even if some people hated him. Even if some people thought he didn't deserve her or vice-versa. She loved him more and I can't conceive how she could put both loves on the same level.They were NOT on the same level.I just.. I'm so disappointed. I've loved Tessa's character for the whole trilogy but with that last bit my faith in her just fell to pieces.I guess I can understand her in a way, I mean Will was dead and she cared about Jem and he cared about her, but the single fact that she said she loved them in the same way, that she never did recognize that Will was her only true love, really disappointed me.It really did.Of course I don't expect her to be lonely forever, as that would just be cruel, but seeing Tessa with someone other than Will already pains me, and hearing her SAY she loved Jem as much as Will was like an arrow through my already bleeding heart (feeling poetic tonight).Btw, HAHA! If you've read the conjectures I'd written BEFORE reading the book, did you see how many of them I got right? Read point D. LMFAO, I'm feeling like a freaking genius right now. Too bad I didn't brace myself for the epilogue..I would even rate it one star just because of that ending, because it fucking changed EVERYTHING.EVERYTHING.So what do I do?Five stars, one star? I know, I'm on opposite poles, but I just can't give it three stars. It would minimize everything. So.. I don't know. I really don't. I think I won't rate this.And I'm anxiously waiting for the last TMI book and then for The Dark Artifices books because I want more TID and I hope, expect, and WANT Cassandra to talk about it and make us see what happened next.(by the way, so that's why Jace has that star tattoo! Awwh, I'm gonna die of cuteness here)P.S.: I liked how The Infernal Devices both started and ended on the Bridge. Nice touch, Cassie.P.P.S.: Of course I can't say anything about CC's writing because she's like my writing goddess. Also, I really hold this trilogy close to heart because it's the first one I've been following since the beginning. I had never had to wait for all books in a series to come out, I'd always started when at least two or three were already out. So I feel like I grew up with this trilogy, and it was so heart-breaking to see it end. (and WHAT AN ENDING -.-) So.. no matter the ending, and whether I liked it or not, this is my favorite paranormal series. (I'm sorry Vampire Academy, you've been displaced)[Btw, disconnected thought: I love Magnus so freaking bad.]kbye. See you at The Dark Artifices.-Edit: It's been noted that actually Tessa's behavior at the end of the book was pretty self-less. She'd had to lose Will once and the pain had been great, but she chose to do it all over again with Jem for love's sake. I honestly hadn't see it under that light, concentrating on how she hadn't been fair in coming to terms with her feelings. So I have to give her that. I'm still confused, though.. I still don't know how to rate this book. But.. now I'm more inclined towards a positive rate.Edit2: Reading Cassandra Clare's post on tumblr about the ending, I'm a bit less angry now. I think.. I think she really meant to build a balanced love triangle, where nobody was loved more or less than another. I also think that maybe it wasn't her intention to make us think she loved Will more than Jem. Thirdly, I think, at least that's what it sounded to me, that she didn't wholly succeed in doing that as I always thought she loved Will more than Jem. And lastly, I think Cassandra Clare and I may have slightly different ideas on love, so I'm taking that into consideration.But.. now that I get her initial intention, I understand the ending better.Still not giving a rate though, sorry.[Jeez, this review is a mess ahahah]