“Good ideas had in the dark, he thought with a groan, were generally best left there.”And time-travel is best left to Marty McFly, I thought with a yawn.Passenger is one of my most anticipated reads for 2016. I liked Alexandra Bracken's The Darkest Minds trilogy and I've been working on the idea that whatever Bracken churns after the mentioned trilogy will be nothing short of golden, but as one can see from my rating it is not. I guess my high expectations sold me short, but even if I lowered them I'd probably still wouldn't give Passenger a rating higher than two.Have you ever had the displeasure of being a sounding board to a person who loves listening to his/her own voice so much? That's how the narration of Passenger felt like to me. It just droned on and on and on about music, clothes and repetitive internal monologues. Examples:"The Chaconne was considered by most, including herself, to be one of the most difficult violin pieces to master--a single progression repeated in dozens of dizzying, complex variations. It was emotionally powerful, and structurally near perfect. At least, it was when played by her. It should have been played by her."and"Two brilliant pearls rolled together softly, knocking against small, heart-shaped gold leaves. What Etta sincerely hoped were dark blue beads, not actual sapphires, were attached to the small hoops like charms. The gold curved up, etched in meticulous detail to look like tiny vines. Etta could tell by the quality of the metalwork—slightly rough—and the way the designs matched imperfectly, that these had been painstakingly handcrafted many years ago. Maybe hundreds of years ago."The imagery is nice and all but life is too short to read about baubles that have little to zero bearing to the story. Both of the quotes above were from the first 5% of the e-book I got, and the rest of the book is peppered by random musings and description of things. It felt like a quarter of the book is just filler and another quarter of our main character's blushing, which is more filler. It hampered the flow of the story and made the main character, Etta, come off as a shallow and self-absorbed little brat.Then there's our main character, Etta. I did not connect to her at all. I guess that happens when the character is a nearly perfect, yet humorless violin prodigy. I'm sure being trapped out of time in a life or death situation is no laughing matter, but jeesh her self torment is just torture to read. Nicholas, the male protagonist was alright, though he does have an almost embarrassing tendency to pine over Etta and her pale blonde hair. Together, they are an undeveloped romantic pairing. Having read the TDM, I expected that the author will write in romance, I just did not expect it will be this unconvincing.It's also a shame because the romance here had the potential to be really one of a kind given the disparity between the two main characters, but damn it if it was wasted on insta-love.Time travel is a very cool, yet very tricky premise. So tricky, I have never read a time-travelling book that I liked. Passenger is no exception. As of this time, time travel is a fantasy, but even fantasy needs to make a smidgen of sense. So when I read the why of the time travel here, my interest dropped by 80%, because really it didn't make sense for me at least. Oh the things I'd do if I can time travel unhampered by a conscience.There are also so many rules for time travel here, most of them make sense but some do not and if one violates a rule, does the time travel police or the Doctor apprehend him/her? The answer is somewhere in the book, but frankly the time travel concept and rules here are just absurd.To wrap this up, I recommend this book as a shelf eye-candy because look at the purttty cover, and that's it.***ARC was provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review***