1. Ace of Shades ★★★★★2. King of Fools ★★★★★3. Untitledmy immediate thoughts during and after finishing this book were, "how dare i not read this sooner" in case any of you were wonderingthe only bad part of my experience reading this was seeing the right side get smaller and realizing that this would eventually end.I had previously enjoyed the author's debut, Daughter of the Burning City but wow I did not realize that her later book would become one of my all-time favorites."...it smells foul.""What? This city?" He inhaled deeply through his nose. "That's the smell of opportunity. And maybe a little piss."Enne Salta is our fair-skinned girl from Bellamy, a place known for it's "10 years back" ways and traditional customs. She travels to New Reynes, nicknamed the "City of Sin," a place notorious for its gritty, harsh atmosphere. There starts her quest for her mother, who had gone missing four months earlier, and she's joined by our other main character— Levi Glaysier. Both of them search together for Enne's mom and are only together because of opportunity: Levi is Enne's only lead to finding her mother and Enne could be the solution for Levi to pay back his debt."In the City of Sin, secrets are their own sort of currency and reputation holds more power than fortune."—The City of Sin: Where To Go and Where Not ToThe characters were a-mazing. Our main character Enne starts off as a girl misplaced in a Bellamy, a world of customs and politeness. However, as she travels to New Reynes, she becomes more comfortable in her own skin and more readily "vicious." Her perspective was so much fun to read from, while I did enjoy both perspectives!Our other main character, Levi, is black and bi and amazing. Levi goes from a morally gray person who's 100% willing to rob Enne without a second thought but over the course of the story, he starts caring more and we love a morally gray character!!! Levi is a chaotic bi (I don't make the rules). I also loved how all of our queer characters are just casually diverse it's amazing!!Our romance during the story was very, very slow-burn and I loved it? Levi and Enne just complemented each other so well and Levi was always so respectable and kind towards Enne, albeit jokingly condescending at times. Her guidebook had been wrong about one thing: the most dangerous part of the City of Sin wasn't the beckoning of the card tables or the thread of the gangs. It was the allure of Levi Glaisyer's rogueish smile.I loved this world so much. There's an atmosphere of scandalism and grittiness that's just so captivating that I finished the entire book in a sitting. In this world, every person also has two "gifts/talents" that they possess, one from each parent. For some, their parents both have the same talent, which means that they would have extraordinary skill with that gift. Levi's is fire & orb making, and Enne Abacus Salta means math & dancing. I thought that this magical system was done really well, and it wasn't that hard to catch on and understand how it worked.In my opinion, the formatting of this book was also really wonderful? The book is split up into ten days— the ten days that Levi has to pay off his debt or be invited to a game that almost guarantees death. Each division also includes quotes about the City of Sin which really helped the dark mood of this book."No one wins the Shadow Game," Lola said. "It's not like they'd want you to know, if someone did," Levi retorted. His voice was hoarse, almost giddy. "No game is impossible to win."The conclusion was really wrapped up nicely in a way that left me satisfied, but still way too excited for the sequel. King of Fools is now definitely one of my most anticipated reads of 2019, right next to The Wicked King (or possibly even higher, I daresay?).Trigger and content warnings for death, torture, and pedophilia.Thank you so much to the HarperCollins for sending me a copy of this book to review!