Levi stood up and reached for his hat on the table. “Where are you going?” Enne asked. “Out. There are volts to make and people to cheat.” He flashed her a smile. She was lucky he hadn’t cheated her. He was feeling sentimental today.(December 2021: note to self - RE-READ THIS GEM ASAP!)Attempt #2 of reading this book didn't disappoint.I'm kind of relieved to announce that, with a cover and a premise like that, Amanda Foody's Ace of Shades delievers what it promises. Nothing more and nothing less than that, but it surely give its reader what the reader expects and deserves. Foody's writing is good, easy to read and follow, and once you get into the right optic, once every detail of the world-building starts sounding familiar and making sense, it gets even spontaneous to imagine it all being realistic. Plus, the plot is fast-paced and extremely entertaining, with many twists and smirking moments you can't help but gush about. I kind of imagined it to be another heist story, but it concentrated more on the gang-y dynamics and intrigues, on the gambling and various tricks, which I kind of didn't mind. I liked the characters and their characterization more than anything, I think. Levi was a favorite and a pleasant surprise, and even if I found Enne a bit stiff and boring during the first half of the book, she really grew on me to the point I completely changed my mind about her, after she embraced the fact that she can be a proper lady and kick ass at the same time. There were things, like the fantasy element I wish would have been more prominent, that didn't exactly worked for me and, although it was a nicely done slow burn, I could have easily done without the romance. I had overall a really good time reading this, it was funny and very visual.I also really appreciated what the author did with the casting (veeeeeeery diverse, but not in a hey-look-at-me-i'm-diverse kind of way) and, I don't think there's need for me to confirm it, but I could never turn my back to a well-written and genuine girl frienship, body-positivity, and an almost perfect bi representation.This book is far from perfect, but it's a good book with a good story, and I really agree with people who say you shouldn't go into this thinking it could ever hold comparison with  Six of Crows and consequently expecting it to be its legacy. Sure, you can tell there is more than one similarity between the two. The gambling and money talks and thirst for one, and then we have similar protagonists and settings starting from the main character Levi (who is, in my opinion, the perfect mash up between Kaz Brekker and Jesper Fahey) and ending with the kind of atmosphere you breath through the pages of each novel. But alas -or luckily-, this ain't not Six of Crows and the Irons are definitely not the Dregs, but you know what? It's more than okay, because I'd rather read a book that is a few inches above okay but has its own originality, than one that's the carbon copy of one so many people have already read and loved. I think Ace of Shades is more oriented to entertain and less dark than SoC, though. It's without a doubt the kind of lightness that draws an enormous difference between a book and the other, and that makes Ace of Shades more forgettable but also more easily enjoyable. And, anyway, Levi, Enne and all their friends are nice guys, with their own depth and defying traits (I looooooove Mansi and Jac so much), and I grew fond of each one of them. Not to the point of obsessing over their complexed personalities, but like the good fellows I wish I had in my own street gang. Again, I think comparing the two won't be fair, but I'm using Bardugo's successful novel to give you an idea of what you might find if you ever decide to give this a chance. As for me, I'm glad I did.ACTUAL RATINGS 3,75/5