This series was all set to be my Robin Hobb all time favorite surpassing even Liveship Traders.The writing is absolutely superb and the world Hobb has created continues to wow me in its complexity. It is a world I wouldn't mind spending forever in. And she has frequently brought me to tears with the beautiful moments she captures between her amazing characters.All that night, I cradled him in my arms, as closely as if he were my child or my lover. As closely as if he were my self, wounded and alone. I held him while he wept, and I held him after his weeping was done. I let him take whatever comfort he could in the warmth and strength of my body. I have never felt less of a man that I did so.If you had asked me at about 80% through I would have said there weren't enough stars on this site for this book.But the ending ruined it for me.Unfortunately the why is a bit of a spoiler, so read under the tag at your own risk.Okay I admit. I've never liked Molly. I know some people do, but I felt she was nothing special, and her frequent pout sessions where she would ignore Fitz drove me crazy. Granted Fitz did hide a lot from her and wasn't exactly honest, something that drove me absolutely nuts about his character. However, she knew going in that he was the King's Man so her getting upset when he was off being the King's Man annoyed me to no end.So I was kind of happy when she wandered off with Burrich.And now Fitz finally admits to Burrich he is alive, and Burrich is back. And it was awesome for a while seeing them together again, Burrich being one of my favorite characters.But Burrich knows that Molly has always loved Fitz and will choose him. Then Hobb removes him from the picture so Fitz and Molly are finally clear to be together.No. Fucking. Way. I thought it was highly inappropriate that one of Fitz first thoughts when Burrich dies is now I can be with Molly. Fuck Molly and fuck you for thinking that first after the man who raised you dies.So he goes about trying to being with Molly/"fulfill his promise to Burrich to care for his children" by ignoring the children and trying to pursue Molly. And then bypassing Molly and telling her children who he is and what he meant to their mother in order to gain their affection and approval.NOT OKAY.You do not tell young children that you were your mother's old lover without the mother's consent. Unforgivable. I don't care how fucking desperate you are. THEY ARE NOT YOUR CHILDREN. They are hers and it is her business what she tells them and does not tell them.This as a parent made me absolutely LIVID.So disappointed.