This one was so difficult for me. It was so emotional and so wonderful, yet at the same time devastated me beyond belief. I'm so happy with how this ended and a small part of me wants to leave it there. Fitz is happy. He is in his children's life, he has Molly again and a life he is happy to live. The Fool is no longer a part of his life for he has gone on his own path. I shall continue with the series however. The Rain Wild Chronicles awaits me next and then The Fitz and The Fool trilogy. The title of the latter makes me hopeful I will see my Beloved's meet again. I doubt fate really has had enough with the Catalyst. This trilogy is my favourite so far. If I had to rate them in order it would go:1) Tawny Man2) Farseer3) Liveship Traders Not that I don't like the Liveship trilogy. I love it but it's my least favourite of the three I've read. So much character development in this story. I've loved every minute of seeing Fitz grow into the man he is. He grew the most in this trilogy in so many ways. He has always been loyal to the Farseer's, but in this trilogy I think he realised that he is a Farseer too. He can be loyal to himself and seek the life that he wants and deserves. He is the Changer, the Catalyst. He realises now what the Fool has told him since they were both boys. He has become the man Burrich and Verity wanted him to be. A good father to all his children biological or not. He is ever faithful to those he loves, his pack. I am still mourning Nighteyes. I don't think I'll ever get over that. The Fool. My God he broke me. The character of The Fool takes Sacrifice to whole new level. He sacrificed everything in this trilogy. His life, his love, his best friend, and his death. He suffered so damn much. It physically hurts my heart to think of what he endured. He has gone through Fitz's multiple deaths, bringing him back to life to use him as Catalyst. Something that I'm sure he hated himself for. I think In the end he just wanted peace for Fitz, even in death. Fitz and the Fool's argument in the second book of the trilogy cost him dearly. A love so pure tarnished by ugly words said in anger. He prophesied his own death and went to it knowingly. He knew he would be tortured and torn apart but he knew he had to die for the future he had seen for Fitz to come true. He died a horrible, painful death for his Beloved to get a chance of the life he should of had anyway. For this he truly was braver than he let on. He also had to come alive again. Once Fitz brings him back to life he is living past his time line. He no longer sees the path before him and can no longer set his catalyst on the needed path. So, not only does he need to live with the memories of his torture but he has to leave his best friend. For he knows that if he stays with him, he would alter the future of happiness that he foresaw for Fitz. A future in which The Fool is not alive nor part of. Man, even though it will never happen I will always ship Fitz and the Fool. Always! This series keeps getting better. I'm worried that I won't enjoy the Rain Wild books and I hope to make my way through them quickly as they are considerably shorter. But then I'll be on the last trilogy and that makes me very sad indeed. A least I can look forward to dragons.I have many thoughts. I don't think I'll ever get them all down. I will say that I'm not a crier when it comes to books. I'm not an emotional person by any means. I've never full on sobbed with tears at any book but man. So many times this series has had tears welling in my eyes, maybe one rolled down my cheek every now and then. Perhaps I'm overly attached to these characters now, it shows that Hobb's writing is phenomenal when it can make this cold heart, warm.