Edit 1: I haven’t cried this much because of a book since Babel. Just the sheer amount of angst and hurt-comfort killed me. “I wanted to kill her then. But I would have had to set his body down and I would not do that. She could not make me abandon him again. I would not set him down and I would not look back at her.”““I will give you all your dreams, if only you come back!”My dream was dead in my arms. I continued to walk.”“I pushed his golden hair back from his tawny forehead. “Oh, Beloved,” I said. I bent and kissed his brow in farewell. And then, grasping the rightness of that foreign tradition, I named him as myself. For when I burned him, I knew I would be ending myself, as well. The man I had been would not survive this loss. “Good-bye, FitzChivalry Farseer.””“All that night, I cradled him in my arms, as closely as if he were my child or my lover. As closely as if he were my self, wounded and alone. I held him while he wept, and I held him after his weeping was done. I let him take whatever comfort he could in the warmth and strength of my body. I have never felt less of a man that I did so.”” “He lifted my hand and tenderly kissed the sword-callused palm of it, and then held it in both of his. It was farewell, and I knew it, and knew I could do nothing to stop it. ”These two will genuinely be the death of me, all these scenes and more had me in a wreck, I mean like sobbing my eyes out at 2AM and waking up the next day with puffy eyes. I don’t think I’ll ever get over the fact that Fitz defied literal fate and destiny itself to bring The Fool back to life.Yeah no one is doing it like them.Also the poem. THE FUCKING POEM. “In that last dance of chances I shall partner you no more. I shall watch another turn you As you move across the floor. In that last dance of chances When I bid your life good-bye I will hope she treats you kindly. I will hope you learn to fly. In that last dance of chances When I know you'll not be mine I will let you go with longing And the hope that you'll be fine. In that last dance of chances We shall know each other's minds. We shall part with our regrets When the tie no longer binds.”How am I supposed to be move on from this?!This isn’t five stars because as much as I loved this book I think it could’ve been a 100 or so pages shorter, and also I don’t really know how to feel about that ending. Anyways I’m going to speed my way through the rain wild chronicles so that I can get to the fitz and the fool trilogy! Edit 2:  I know I initially said I was going to give this four stars but I feel like I have to bump it up to a 5 or at least a 4.5 despite the few problems I had with it, solely due to the fact that I CANT STOP thinking about this damn book.Every day since the day I started it to the day I finished it and even now weeks since it’s been over, the events of this book and the characters literally haunt my mind.So 4 → 4.5