I genuinely loved reading this book. It was a fun adventure into the world of Bone Criers, and I really liked the characters and plot line as well! In my opinion, it was a nice, quick fantasy read with fun elements and an actually interesting story. I really don't feel like writing a long review of this book, so here are just a few points I want to talk about:-the characters I actually loved! Bastien was really dreamy, Aliesse fierce and protective. My favorite character has to be Sabine, though. She got mistreated on this book and deserves better! I better see her get an amazing end to her story in the next book.-I know this isn't really important, but I love the French names! Sabine and Aliesse and Julienne are such pretty names; I genuinely like them. -I really liked the whole French-inspired world. Kathryn Purdie herself said it's essentially "her love letter to France", and it shows, what with the whole world being almost a historical version of France, but with Bone Criers.-I think the Bone Criers are actually a very creative concept, and my favorite part of them is that they actually use the bones of their kills to give them powers, which I think was so cool.-On a side note, though, the fact that the main theme of the Bone Criers was that women don't need men (except to have children *that too, GIRLS ONLY*) for anything, and that we can kill them lolI loved that haha :) We love independent women, and of course, there was an abundance of independent women in this book. -I was kind of indifferent to the rest of the Bone Criers other than Sabine and Ailesse, and didn't care much for Jules and Marcel that much. -The plot definitely threw me off. I expected this book to be a bit slow, but I found that it wasn't slow at all, quite the opposite at times. I couldn't keep my hands off the book!-reading the reviews on Goodreads, I expected to love Cas and ship him with Sabine, but Cas *seems* to be the villain in the next book, so I'm not really sure about him. I would love it if he ended up with Sabine, and Bastien with Ailesse, though!okay, so nothing else is currently coming to mind (I'll probably remember something in the middle of the night lol), so my overall review:I had a whole lot of fun reading this book, and really couldn't find anything wrong with it! This review doesn't go very in depth but if you want a review to tell you about the flaws of the book (which I'm sure there are) just read other reviews at this point because I got nothing. I can't wait to read Bone Crier's Dawn in March of 2021!ugggghhh 2021 can't get her soon enough so I can read all the sequels to the amazing books I read this year!!5 stars :)