Real Rating: 3,5 starsBone Crier's Moon tell us the story of three main characters: Sabine, Ailesse and Bastien. Sabine and Ailesse are best friends and part of a clan of Leuress, women who ferry the dead into the underworld or paradise. They must do it with the help of bones from animals and a sacred bone flute. If the dead are not ferried they become something like invisible danger. Bastien is a boy driven by revenge because his father was killed by a Leuress. And so our story begins.Even if the book also overused YA tropes, I was still invested in the plot and the trope of star crossed lovers. Honestly, I did not care much for Sabine's POV, but I loved Ailesse's. So without further delay, what I liked:- The concept of the star-crossed lover called "amouré" acting as a sacrifice for a bigger end. - Strong friendships.- The mythology the author created (Bone Criers, Leuress etc).- I liked to see roles reversing: at the beginning, we have one "less strong" girl and one "stronger". In the end, their roles are somehow reversed but in a good way.- I liked to see a parental figure that actually had some complexity in her and was not just the usual "parent is villainized because yes". - The gorgeous cover. I would buy this book just for it, really. What I did not like:- I do not like the part where they have to kill animals, but I understand the purpose of it...but it still hurt. I wish there was no need for that. It left me uncomfortable and I had to ignore it in order to enjoy the book. I lowered my rating because of it.- The plot twist at the end was a bit weak because at the beginning of the book I totally saw it coming. Maybe if the first meeting scene wasn't so fast...- Supporting characters were okay. They have plenty of potential to develop in the next book. Overall, I really enjoyed this book and I'd recommend it for those who enjoy French Folklore or enemies to lovers trope. ARC provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review (Thank you!)