“Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom …”I MADE IT!! And if I never hear a woman’s vagina described as her “heated silk” again, that will be just fine by me!Honestly, though, I have to give it to her: Maas showed a lot of restraint in this book. It was a good 350 pages before Rowan’s magical penis made an appearance 😬. Sorry, I just can't resist. Overall, I liked it enough to give it three stars. I mean, I read all of the bajillion pages, which is saying something.It's been a long ride. Emphasis on the long. I'm still perplexed as to why these books got so long in the end.  Kingdom of Ash has some really strong moments, but there's so much filler and repetition that you have to fight through the boring parts to get to them. This is, at most, a 500-page story, extended with long, slow stretches of the characters journeying from one place to another, and repetitive scenes of battle. Also: Chaol and Yrene are so dull.The first 100 pages and last 150 pages were the most gripping, for me. The conclusion is suitably dramatic though I'm amazed that everyone managed to survive and the beginning details the horrific torture Aelin suffers at the hands of Cairn-- it's not a book for the squeamish. The disgusting scenes of torture also become a little repetitive after a while, but it starts very tense. How will Aelin get out of this?? The answer is really quite satisfying, too.I do feel like this is a very long epilogue. There's battle scene after battle scene but not much of a plot. Dorian has an interesting part to play in this with his newfound abilities, which is one of the stronger aspects except the bit where he turns into a girl and, um, explores his new body *shudders*, but very little happens for an almost 1000-page novel. It's mostly about wrapping things up, tying up any loose ends and neatly establishing Aelin's awesomeness. The way each of the main characters has to be perfectly settled into a het pairing is a little forced, too, but oh well.Well, I'm glad I read it to the end, and I do feel a little sad that it's over. I've been reading these books for more than five years and I can't believe how much my own life has changed since I started. Maas might not be my favourite writer, but any author who can keep you reading for more than 4,000 pages must have something good going on.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube