3.75 - 4 StarsAll things considered, I enjoyed this book and series a great deal. As the conclusion to a pretty popular and lengthy series, it had a lot riding on its massive 980 page shoulders...and a LOT of uber-emotional fangirls and boys to avoid disappointing, let's be real. Overall I thought Maas did a pretty decent job of it......even with all the filler, all the battles, ALL the traveling to and fro...all the unnecessary......until about page 770 or so. This book was...long. Probably longer than it needed to be, quite frankly. I saw that some people had said that - and I didn't agree, at first. I was more than perfectly content, even at page 600-something, to relish these characters and the individual storylines that made for such an epic ending for as long as it lasted. However, at about 770-800 pages, some events in the book made me...less than enthused. With all of the build-up regarding the final "showdown" and the closing of the Wyrdgate...I was bummed with the way it all went down. Not gonna lie, since the time it was all explained, I have wondered about the Wyrdgate...and been a little confused by it all in a way. So many gods, blood debts, and other stuff involved. And when it finally came to "the moment," as it were, I was kind of a little miffed. Especially when Aelin ends up losing her Fire-Bringer powers.I'm sorry, I'm all for the ordinary being all extraordinary and all that...but I also like my "super-heroes" to have their super powers. And after so many books of Aelin finding and then learning to control this power...for her to just lose it in the end, right before the big battle?  Also, the whole part with Dorian...When he learned how to shift, I was like, cool. That's cool. But when he goes to Morath, encounters Maeve, and supposedly dupes her? I just have a hard time believing he was able to do that. To overpower her and outsmart her with his magic like that after people much older and experienced with magic, i.e., Rowan and the cadre, have been unable to do so for millennia. And then, not to fucking kill her right then when presented the opportunity? And don't even get me started on the final showdown. Once again, Maeve seems to easily take control of everyone's minds (making my point with Dorian even more ridiculous), once again she seems to so easily overpower them all. Le sigh. It just felt drawn out and repetitive.Again. Also, I was kind of left a little blue-balled by how things ended between some of the characters. But I think by then, Maas realized she was encroaching on 1000 fucking pages. And, by then, there were just SO many damned story lines, it would have been almost a whole other book to properly ties up all the loose ends in regards to everyone's story, relationships, and future. But, whatever. All in all, I enjoyed the majority of this book. There were some REALLY poignant moments Manon and her Thirteen, anyone? Holy-throat-tight-with-emotion right there, people.  And in the end, I think the idea that you can have friendships and relationships you would be willing to sacrifice your life for? Always powerful.