I have mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand, the fantasy universe is well-realized, detailed and interesting. It feels like an Arabian Nights story from a parallel universe, but one in which the purely fantastical elements co-exist with mundane reality. I particularly liked that the city Dhamsawaat was a detailed, cosmopolitan place, which supports the idea that the ghul-hunters (represented by one of the main characters, Adoulla) might be declining in number. There's something about the growth of cities that seems to inhibit the power of magical creatures, and Adoulla's inability to give up the life despite getting old is melancholy.On the other hand, there's an irregularity to the story's flow that made it hard for me to warm to the plot or the characters. Things are emphasized that turn out to be unimportant. Action becomes intense and then fades to nothing, or is intense in the wrong places. For example: two of the POV characters encounter some street thugs out to deliver religious "chastisement" to an innocent young woman and defeat them, saving the girl and humiliating the bullies. Perfectly reasonable plot element for describing the culture of the city, or establishing character, or even setting up later events. It might have worked had it not occurred three-fourths of the way into the book and taken most of six pages to describe, as well as introducing a religious group never before mentioned that is still well-known enough to the POV characters that it probably should have been mentioned before. It's far too intense an encounter for that part of the plot--a complaint I could make about a number of other parts of the story.I was more interested in the older characters than the two young ones, Raseed the dervish and Zamia the Badawi shapeshifter, who seemed to be running on rails. There's never any question that they're going to fall in love, despite having no reason to do so. Their love is fated not to be because...actually Ahmed supports this well, but that doesn't change the fact that it was Meant To Be by the gods of narrative. Personally, I would have liked to see Raseed implode; he's been raised to idealize personal purity and chastity, but he hasn't yet come to terms with the fact that he's going to have desires, and that they don't mean he's a failure. He seemed to go from being wound tighter than, I don't know, something really tight, to accepting the possibility of life with Zamia, with almost no existential crisis. Zamia, for her part, has a number of interesting personal problems, but there's just no space in this book for her to really resolve them. And maybe that's the problem; at 274 pages, this is far too slim for five POV characters to move about freely. Saladin Ahmed (have I mentioned that this is just an incredibly cool name?) says this is the first volume of a series, but so many of the plotlines are wrapped up here that I have trouble imagining what the next book might be about. I may pick it up, just to find out, but I probably won't go out of my way for it.