*** MARISSA MEYER IS FINISHED WITH WINTER!! ***TEASERS (from Marissa Meyer's Twitter):She screamed like a thousand birds were picking at her flesh. She screamed like the palace was burning down around her.“Hold these wires and make sure they don’t touch.”“What happens if they touch?”“The ship will probably self-destruct.”She was going to have to train herself not to stare at him quite as often as she was used to. That would be no easy task.“May I request a new uniform? A towel seems inappropriate for the position.”She was a danger to his hard-earned neutrality. Thinking about her tended to give him an unwanted hitch in his lungs.“We have had word that some political groups are calling for the forced abdication of Emperor Kaito.""Being raised on Luna seems to really mess people up. She wouldn’t be the lovable cyborg we’ve all come to adore."“They’re the first crew I’ve ever had, and most of them even call me Captain. I’m going to miss them.”When they arrived, they arrived in force—a dozen military ships surrounding the safe house, guns drawn.Her whole body was wound up tight. She was ready to storm the palace herself—an army of one.It did not feel like home. It felt like a place that had been built to be paradise, but had become a prison.“Greenwich is a funny word, isn’t it? All green and witchy. Like soup.”Fear was a weakness in the court. Much better to act unperturbed. Much safer to act crazy, when in doubt.In a moment of weakness, he craned his head and kissed her on the shoulder, where the drop of blood had fallen before.He laughed, like someone had stabbed him in the chest and he had no other choice but to find it amusing.She was prettier than a bouquet of roses and crazier than a headless chicken. Fitting in was not an option.“Oh, stars. I don’t know his real name. How can I not know his real name? What kind of alpha mate am I?”"She definitely has a crush on you. It’s about the size of Jupiter.”She had the bone structure of a bird. Wolf probably could have crushed her with his fingertips."You’re a good guy, Thorne.” She paused. “Well, you have your moments." "People do not put their faith in phantoms.”“I expected palm trees and red carpets,” said Iko, brow drawn in a show of severe disappointment.“Right now, a kiss is the going rate for near-death experiences. It’s kind of a point system.”She still looked furious, but now she also looked a little intimidated. Not intimidated enough, but a little.“I don’t hear anything.”“Exactly. That’s what happens when you *stop talking*.”Over a dozen thaumaturges were stationed around the room. It was almost like the queen expected someone to start trouble.Being tyrannized by Levana had a way of making allies of enemies."I intend to put an end to the rumors of the darling Princess Selene once and for all.”Levana already wanted her dead. She couldn’t very well want her *more* dead.If she’d learned anything from Thorne, it was that sometimes gumption was all a person really needed to be heroic.“You are a child playing at war games,” he said, “and you’re too naive to realize that you’ve already lost.”“All I ever wanted were two legs, ten fingers, and perfect hair. Is that really so much to ask?”“But I forgot my ball gown on Earth.” “Don’t worry. You wouldn’t want to get blood all over it anyway.”Instead of being pieced together with wires and steel, these creatures were a jigsaw of muscle tissue and cartilage.***"Winter is the evil queen's stepdaughter. She's lived on Luna in the palace but grown up with her stepmother and seen how, when Levon uses her lunar powers, it's turned her into such a tyrant. Winter has decided never to use her lunar gift. But when a lunar chooses not to use their gift, it slowly starts to drive them crazy, so Winter is afflicted with bad hallucinations, and as the book goes on, her mental state is slowly deteriorating."***"Book Four: WINTER is based on Snow White, where we will finally get to see the world of the Lunars."THE WORLD OF LUNARS!***... the moon?o_o