“We are the Sword of Kaigen. If we’ve let it rust, then we deserve to die on it, along with our enemies.” …It is 3:27 AM and I finished reading the book. There are 73 people among my friends who want to read it too. If you are one of them, do this today. If you are not—do it anyway.I don’t think enjoyment is an apt word to describe my experience with The Sword of Kaigen. It took me a while to compose this review because even now I do not know how to put together a coherent sentence that could portray the sheer magnificence of this book (especially that I most definitely do not possess an ounce of Ms Wang’s stupendous writing talent!). This book appeared out of nowhere, grabbed me by the throat and then shattered me only to rebuild me in a new shape. I cannot remember last time that a book shook me out of my complacency and annihilated the ironic subconscious voice that offers snark comments whenever I read to leave me both awed and grateful. The Broken Earth maybe. But I’m not sure.The main idea is persuasive, yet deceptively simple and relies on a universe where humans have supernatural powers relying on natural elements: air, water or earth. Some humans that is, roughly those inhabiting lands modelled after what we call South East Asia in our world, with the derivatives of Japan (Kaigen) and China (Ranga) being at the focal point (we, the Westerners are weak and backward peoples worth only some pity in the best case, with no magic or civilisation to our name). More specifically, the story unfolds in a remote and obscure corner of Kaigen, seemingly backward village, neglected and forgotten, keeping to the traditional ways and values of a warrior culture that are no longer respected or remembered elsewhere in Kaigen. Indeed, the Empire seems to be bent on denigrating the way of life they represent while the enemy is closer than anyone thinks. But the overall settings and the high politics serve only as a backdrop for harrowing individual stories  with the members on one particular family: a father, a mother, and a son, at the fulcrum of the tale. The Matsudas don’t cut corners and they are the epitome of their culture. And what a difficult culture it is! A culture of austerity, of perfection, of denial. Of silences measured in years and weighted in ice mountains. You can already see that this persuasive, yet deceptively simple design I mentioned is rendered into a masterpiece thanks to the sublime and complex characterisation of each of the protagonists. Misaki’s unflinching ferocity, Mamoru’s heart-breaking stubbornness, Takeru’s pertinacious skill are a mixture of virtues that are flaws and blessings at the same time. I hated Takeru but was forced to respect him for his principles and deadly skills. My heart cried for Misaki but I had to grudgingly acknowledge the darkness inside her. I loved Mamoru knowing that my love is doomed from the onset. They were all both alien and relatable at the same time, and always, always surprising until the very end of the story. As they breathed and bled on the pages, I breathed and bled as I read.While the relatively modest scope of this harrowing tale might sound discouraging, do not be deceived as The Sword of Kaigen is a novel of rare density and potency. The pacing is relentless in spite of retrospective flashes. The chapters are short but well crafted and with a superbly balanced description to reflection to action ratio. Regarding the latter, I simply must note that since Ms Wang is a martial art practitioner herself, she means business when she writes fighting sequences. These are simply phenomenal, take my word for it. I normally tend to skim through battle scenes because I don’t find them that interesting since they habitually serve the authors as mere tools for plot-advancement. In The Sword of Kaigen these scenes are a form of art. And the best thing about The Sword of Kaigen is that to achieve all of the above the Author does not need a ten-instalment-long series sprawling over thousands of pages and millions of words. No, it takes her one modest novel. Which of course meant, that immediately upon finishing I longed for ten more books like this to exist in readiness to be devoured by me (before you check: there are not).As a final word of caution, please be prepared for the fact that especially at the beginning of the book you might have the impression that English is peppered with numerous words you will probably not know or understand (unless you are a manga pro). In my case, this somewhat lessened my reading experience. There is a glossary at the end of the book but a) I hate when these things are at the end instead of the beginning so I can at least familiarise myself with the terms b) a book is written in such a way that the reader essentially needs to check every second word. I’m all OK for introducing specific terms and names (like in Inda for instance) but it must be done intuitively or gradually to give the reader a chance to internalise the meanings. Having said this, by chapter 7 I was comfortable with the narrative but I can see some readers being dissuaded and frustrated.What else to say? I kept reading until small hours of the night and then I couldn’t sleep for a reminder of it. This book is everything you need to read this year. It deserves words of the highest praise and as wide a readership as possible. Please make it happen. PS The end of the world is coming, I loved the same book that Petrik did! (he agrees!)PS 2 Thank you for reading. In case you do not know me: my average GR rating is 3.4 and I really do hoard and guard my 5-starers with more alertness than a paranoic dragoness could wish for. I do not hand those away like candies. When I reluctantly do so, it counts, it matters and it is supposed to mean something.