Stunning. Tragic. Raw and Beautiful. This Japanese high fantasy blends realistic characterization with a well conceived magic system resulting in a compelling story with incredibly fleshed out characters. There’s nothing like this out there.The Sword of Kaigen will not be what you expect. At the onset Wang lays down some exposition, albeit with a little tedium. Slowly, the reader learns some names, some backstory a little lore about the world. Once you become hooked by the realism of these characters, namely Misaki, an isolated woman in a loveless marriage with magic-wielding children that she doesn’t understand, you are eager to read on. I quickly learned the depth of the main characters and felt as if they were real people with very relatable issues.And then Wang smashes everything. With broad strokes, the pace and plot take a one eighty, leaving you and the characters disoriented and grasping for anything. The plot is unpredictable, the pacing superb and the overall story structure totally unique. Like real life, the story is messy and doesn't follow a predictable arc to which a fantasy reader may be accustomed. The characters are beautiful. Misaki’s isolation, self doubt, tragedy and endurance make her one of my favorite modern, epic heroines. Misaki is so well fleshed out that I could predict how she would feel and say in any given scenario. The Sword of Kaigen successfully explores many themes: patriarchy, tradition, sexism, motherhood, fatherhood, propaganda, government roles, geopolitical warfare, misinformation campaigns, loyalty and all the gray lines in between. These themes are not merely touched on, they are expounded on. For example, through the story telling, I began to understand why the patriarchy was in place and why Misaki’s husband, Takeru, behaved the way he did. Men are not vilified here. Rather, Takeru’s behavior starts to make total sense based on his backstory. Not only do all characters have an arc, but the culture in which they live also has an arc as the patriarchy takes on a new form. This book is also very sad. Strength through tragedy is likely its strongest theme. The world building is solid. There are many cultures, languages and peoples that I really wanted to get to know more. Makes me excited to read more stories that take place in this world. The magic system starts out derivative but becomes more integral to the characters giving it more depth. Did I forget to mention the action? Wow. Incredible warfare and magic-wiedling battles unlike anything I’ve read in fantasy.Highly, highly recommend. This is a masterpiece. There is nothing like this out there.