The Black Tides of Heaven is a beautiful story about twins, fate and finding your own path. It follows a young person trying to find his agency in a world that has always seen him as an afterthought, as someone unimportant and passive, and he decides to fight against that. It's also a story about the complexity of family ties.JY Yang is now one of my favorite authors.When I read their novelette Waiting on a Bright Moon earlier this year, I knew I had to try their novella series. And The Black Tides of Heaven did not disappoint.This novella follows two twins, Akeha (whose PoV we follow) and Mokoya (who has with a prophetic gift). We follow them from their birth to the days of the revolution that is forever changing the Tensorate. The constant time jumps did prevent me from connecting to them sometimes, but I was always invested in their story. It was painful to see them grow apart, even if that was inevitable. I almost cried multiple times. I loved them both, and I want to read more about them.I loved the worldbuilding. It's speculative fiction in a non-western setting, with a very interesting magic system and an approach to gender and sexuality that I had never seen before.I like reading about worlds where not only we have an all-queer cast (which is always great) but there's no allo/cis/heteronormativity.In this world, children are genderless until they choose to be confirmed as [gender]. Then they can change the way their bodies look, if they want to; some do, others don't, for various reasons. And there are many characters with lovers of their same gender.In this world, magic users are Tensors, and they can work with the "Slack" by pulling the five natures, Earth, Water, Fire, Forest and Metal. It's never really explained, but I didn't have a problem with that - I could visualize everything, and I like when SFF books (especially if they're adult) don't spoon-feed me information. Maybe I won't understand everything immediately, but that means that the book will be even more interesting when I reread.Because I will reread this, I already know.The only thing I didn't love was the romance - I didn't feel it, but that happens with most romantic relationships I read, so it didn't bother me that much. Also, there's never that much space to develop relationships in short fiction.The saying goes, "The black tides of heaven direct the courses of human lives". To which a wise teacher said, "But as with all the waters, one can swim against the tide."Edit 08/08/2018: I stated in my review, almost a year ago, that it was difficult to connect with the characters and the romance because of the time jumps (I never had this problem with Red Threads). This didn't happen on reread and I can't wait to reread the second book too.