This is kinda harsh but my honest opinion after reading the ARC ~ ** May 2023 edit: I'm a bookseller and read a variety of genres including children's and YA. My issues are not with these genres. My issues are with books that read as clumsy, horny (and not in a fun camp way), and unpolished. Which in my Personal Opinion(tm)!!!!!!!!!! this book is.It's pretty stock standard commercial horny hetero fiction. That's fine. Can't please everyone. I'll be totally honest: if you don't care that much about quality of writing and want an easy het romance-fantasy novel à la Cassandra Clare et al. (nothing wrong with that!), you may enjoy this. It's not my thing, though, and I can't recommend it if you want a decent wholemeal fantasy novel to sink your teeth into. **I found this disappointing and I’m frankly shocked it has such glowing early reviews. To be fair, my disappointment is partly caused by the misleading blurb and ARC marketing. The blurb implies a high stakes military fantasy set at a war college for dragon riders; this put me in mind of Temeraire, The Poppy War, or even elements of The Hunger Games. Romance is mentioned - “traitors will become allies… or lovers” - but it’s certainly not implied to be wholly a romance novel. I saw on the author’s instagram that this is being marketed as a “new adult fantasy” - if 'new adult' just means ‘lacking the sophistication of genre fiction but can’t be marketed as YA romance because of sex scenes’… then, sure, call it 'new adult'. All the characters - even supposed high-ranking military figures - speak like millennials from the year 2023. Why was the word ‘vibe’ used so many times? As in, ‘his vibe is weird’. But in other ways the setting recalls medieval Europe? Who edited this??? I would not have picked this up if the marketing more accurately reflected the content. It’s 100% a romance novel in the vein of Cassandra Claire, Sarah J. Maas, the Divergent series; any genuine stakes are basically subplot to the central romance. The oh-so-important ~tension~ could be resolved by just… talking to one another? Most other world building elements are underdeveloped & confusing, full of plot holes, and everyone’s dialogue is set up to give the protagonist & ~dark~ love interest perfect Marvel-esque quips and one-liners. I get that this is a popular thing but to me it lacks sophistication and polish of contemporary fantasy :-) Also, my certified transgender opinion (tm) is that the inclusion of a random nonbinary side character was disingenuous and definitely tokenism, lol. The reason for two stars instead of one is because I found the representation of the protagonist's disability - and how it was navigated in such physically demanding settings - genuinely interesting.All in all, this, to me, read like a semi-edited fanfic. If that’s your thing, go buckwild. Otherwise, I can’t really recommend it. The blurb is pretty misleading, imo. Expect a YA romance novel.