Infinity and beyond/5⭐️Whenever people ask me what my favourite book of all time is, I was never able to give them a real answer because I never had one… until NOW!!! This book… IS THE BEST BOOK I’VE EVER READ IN MY ENTIRE EXISTENCE!!!The way I already want to reread it even though I’ve only just finished it?!?! This book is the type of book you will never get over. The type of book which is unforgettable. The type of book that you become obsessed with and make it your whole personality. The type of book you create millions of playlists for. The type of book that you want everyone to read but at the same time want to gatekeep because you think no one will ever love and understand it the way you do. The type of book that you can’t stop reading but don’t want to end at the same time. The type of book that is just… P-E-R-E-F-C-T!!!Let me just tell you… If you love the movie “How to train your dragon”… if you love enemies to lovers… if you love sizzling sexual and romantic tension… if you love a powerful, badass and strong female main character… if you love the found family trope… THEN PICK THIS BOOK UP RIGHT NOW!!!!!!! Like hello?!?! This book is absolutely everything!!! I have to say.. this book has everything in it for it to be the perfect, most amazing book of all time, at least in my humble opinion..It just has everything I’ve ever wanted a book to have! Dragons (with amazing and different personalities), dragon riders, amazing quests, fighting scenes (which are very well written and easy to follow), epic romance, fun side characters, angst, character development, character depth, spicy scenes, incredible main characters and so so much more!I’m a big fan of the “How to train your dragon” franchise and absolutely love dragons in general!! And I’ve never read a book where dragons are really part of the main plot and event of the book. Sure there’re many books with dragons in it but most of the time they’re only briefly mentioned or seen. Never were they actually heavily important to the plot and if they are, they’re not written the way I want them to be written if you get what I mean… at least until this book!! It is about a freaking dragon training college!!!! Like how freaking awesome is that?!?! And the fact that the dragons actually have personalities?!?!! I’m in absolute love!!!! Tairn, Andarna and all of the other dragons own my freaking heart and soul!! And I also love how the dragons aren’t portrayed as war weapons or anything like that! They’re actually respected and looked up upon!! It just perfect!! And the bond and connection that they form with their riders… I’m in awe!!! Also the depth of dragon history in this book is exactly how I always wanted it to be!!!! It is just a dream come true for me…However, not only is that aspect perfect in the story but so are the characters!! Starting of with our FMC Violet! She may be portrayed as weak in the beginning but the way she fights herself to the top and never gives up and has such an amazing, badass personality?!?! I’m in love with her!! She’s so honest which I absolutely adore about her character! She never backs down and always speaks what’s on her mind!! She’s just too perfect for her own good but yet at the same time still has flaws that make her human and real!! She’s just so well written. I honestly believe that she is the best FMC I’ve ever read about and I just loved reading through her POV!!! There wasn’t a moment I couldn’t get enough of her!! She’s also funny, witty and intelligent which makes me love her even more!!!Next we have Xaden… he is my new favourite book bf and MMC!!! He may seem cold, closed off and mysterious throughout most of the book but once he opens up, he is so much more than that! He really is the definition of misunderstood and I absolutely love him. The fact that he’s also morally grey AND an Anti-Hero?!?! So good. He deserves everything good in the world and I just loved the way he thinks, feels about and looks at Violet. He doesn’t baby her and actually sees her potential!! I also hope that we get more of his POV in book 2 because seeing how obsessed he actually is with our girl Violet had me on my goddamn knees!!! The side characters are also all so freaking important to me!! Liam, Rhi and everyone else…. I love them all so so much and I loved how they actually got depth to their characters instead of just being there. Also the friendships and found family between everyone is so heartwarming and adorable and makes the reading experience even more enjoyable than it already is! I’m also so excited to see more of them and their friendships in book 2!!Now let’s finally get to the romance… it was so freaking incredible!!! Well written and paced and the tension ughhhh THE TENSION!!!!! It was to freaking die for!!! They were also real true enemies to lovers!! Like the way they literally despised each other at the beginning was so fucking well written that I actually believed it at some points but yet at the same time there was this sizzling sexual and romantic tension between these two…. I was in complete and utter awe!!!! I also adored how they matched each other’s energy and vibe instead of them being like complete opposites! They really worked so well together and matched each other perfectly!! Especially in the sense of seeing each other’s true selves instead of the mask they have on for everyone else. They truly get one another which makes me love and adore them even more! It is a match made in heaven and true soulmatism if you ask me!! Also the forced proximity between these two (iykyk)… ugh it was just perfect…While the plot was very character driven it still had so much more to it!! Like the political conflicts, the war, obviously the amazing dragons and their history… it was all so perfectly aligned!!! Also once again… the bond between dragon and riders.. It was so freaking well constructed and the concept of it… I’m completely in love!!! I also want a dragon of my own now!!!!! I’m just obsessed atp tbh lmao…Overall, this is my absolute favourite book of all time and while I want to keep it all to myself I also want the world to know about it and fall in love with it the way I did. So please… READ THIS BOOK AND BECOME AS OBSESSED WITH IT AS I DID!!!!!! You definitely won’t regret it. Rebecca Yarros is an absolute genius and I can’t wait until November for book 2 because that ending… It really had me shocked to my core and I need to know what happens next!!!!!!!