I think I can give this book a low 3 stars, if I’m being very nice. The only reason I didn't DNF this book in the first half is because I was using it to actively procrastinate packing.I’ll start by saying I don’t buy into the hype when books blow up like this and I don’t think “booktok lied to me.” I pre-ordered this well before it came out and well before people were talking about it on every other post on your feeds - which is to say that I went into it based on what the book presents itself as rather than reader reactions - and when I know I’m going to read a book I don’t read/watch reviews because I don’t want to go in with any preconceived notions I garner from other readers; so, while I don’t think booktok lied to me, I do think the book itself “lies” about what it is. The synopsis, the excerpt on the back of the book, and the cover all communicate that this is a high fantasy, war college, dragon-riding book. What it actually is, is a From Blood and Ash style New Adult fantasy romance that utilizes those elements. That becomes apparent very early in the book just from the style of the writing, but it was jarring to reorient myself to what I was going to get rather than what I was sold. And this isn’t to say that there’s anything wrong with NA romantasy books, but I wonder why the publisher felt the need to bury the lede here when NA romantasy is such a popular genre right now. But I digress. On to the book itself. The writing is a hard 2 out of 5. It’s not good. Never in my life have I seen clunkier or more lazily delivered exposition in a book. My note on page 14 says “I’m sure we’re going to get past this soon but the expositional dialogue is physically painful.” The author spends the first hundred pages of this book (at least) beating you over the head with expositional dialogue delivered in such a way that I’m reading it thinking “there’s no reason for these two people to be saying these words to each other in this order, except that the author doesn’t know how else to get that information to me as the reader.” This is exasperated by the main character just straight up reciting lore to herself. Out loud. Like a history book. For no goddamn reason except that, again, the author seemingly just couldn't figure out how else to get that information across. Truly just some of the worst attempts at world building I’ve ever read. Beyond that, the style is entirely too modern for my personal tastes (if I wanted a book with dialogue like “for the win” “gotcha” and “shit’s about to get real” I would not be reading high fantasy) and the main character’s internal dialogue is constantly about how hot the male lead is and how much her scalp is tingling when he looks at her. The prose is blunt and dry and boring. The book is also predictable to a fault, well beyond the idea of a book just adhering to genre conventions. From the very beginning you can pretty much lay out how the entire story is going to play out and guess all the important beats it’s going to hit and when they’re going to happen. If you’ve ever read a fantasy romance book and if you’ve ever read a dragon riding book, you’ve read this book exactly. It’s cookie cutter. It’s nothing new. There were so few instances of me not knowing exactly what was coming that I can tell you how many times it happened. Twice. Two times in this entire book did something happen that I didn’t already know was coming. The ending ends up being pretty funny because of this. It’s delivered as this massive reveal that has absolutely no gravitas because I distinctly remember the exact moment I knew it was going to happen. Rather than this shocking “oh my god” moment that it’s clearly intended to be, it hits more with a “oh cool congratulations on catching up to what I knew two hundred pages ago. Is that it?” So, with all of that said, why am I able to give it three stars???Look, all I really needed from this book was to have fun. I mentioned above that I don’t buy into the hype, but I am aware of it and with this book I adjusted my expectations accordingly. I know what kinds of books often tend to get popular in the way that this one did and my previous experiences with them (some good, some not so good), and so I readjusted my needs to “I don’t need it to be bloody shakespeare, but let’s have fun with it.” And eventually it did get kind of fun. This dragon book took 200 pages to give me dragons, but once it finally did there was a noticeable improvement in my enjoyment of the book. I’m not difficult to please, you give me dragons and flying and training and a bare minimum of readable writing and I’m going to have some fun. It just took way too long to get there and I don’t know that I think fighting through the first half of the book was worth finally being entertained by the second half. And I really didn’t need the multi-page obstacle course that was just the author dictating an episode of Ninja Warrior. The romance is…fine. Again, it’s nothing special. I made the From Blood and Ash comparison earlier and this couple (Violet and Xaden…what a name) are just Poppy and Casteel in a different font. You cannot tell me Xaden’s “vicious little thing” line wasn’t at least inspired by how obsessed everyone is with Casteel’s “stunningly murderous little creature” line. Like I said above, if you’ve read a fantasy romance before you’ve read this book. Character-wise I think the main character is fine and the disability rep was interesting and gave her a refreshing change from the “short training montage and MC is suddenly better than everyone at everything” archetype. She’s not magically healed by anything, she has to find ways to work around the limitations of her body. I think I did enjoy Xaden as a love interest (despite and/or because of the cookie cutter enemies-to-lovers shadow magic template, who’s to say) and there were a couple side characters I liked. All said and done, I *might* give this series another shot with book 2. I could have a better time with a second book now that I (hopefully) don’t have to sit through 100+ pages of concussive force exposition and I can go in knowing what I’m getting despite what the book sells itself as. However, I just found out it’s apparently supposed to be FIVE books and the next one comes out in November (7 months after this one, yikes), and not to bring FBAA up for a third time here but for the love of god we all saw what happened with that series. Far too many books, all far too long, and all coming out way too quickly without anything close to adequate time for editing or revisions. I guess we’ll see how this goes.