2 Stars“You are like a living rose among wax flowers. We maybe last forever, but you bloom brighter and smell sweeter....”If you listen very carefully, legend says you can still hear my drawn-out sigh, drifting in the wind…All these mystical, magical things were supposed to be enchanting but I just felt meh. And it starts off really good! This has a gorgeous setting with a captivating depiction of fae. Rogerson's clever use of description builds picturesque scenes and there are so many fun elements introduced in the first few chapters, including: - Twin-goats turned into mischievous children- Pompous fae obsessed with self-image, but more than a little out of touch.- Creepy half fae and half-dead human zombie spirit deer thing- Fae who literally die if they create anything (‘craft’)- As such, a whole town who creates for the fae in exchange for magical favors - Fae who often twist the favors into not-so pleasant loopholes (see goat-children)- The town is literally named WhimsyBUT, it took less than three chapters for this to turn into another story where the sensible heroine goes ga-ga after instalove. Isobel is a master of craft and cleverly receives practical favors from the fae in return. She’s firmly established as smart and careful doing whatever she can to keep her family safe. ...And then Rook walks in. And I just don’t understand? She was sure she loved him… because why? She’s sees sadness in his eyes, and she wasn’t aware fae were capable of human emotion? Just because he’s hot and able to love doesn’t mean you love him, girl! There seriously wasn't a full conversation before she was dropping the L-bomb. Don’t get me wrong-- conversation does happen!  Over a meandering, long journey that exists simply to force interaction between the love interests. Seriously. Rook decides Isobel must stand trial for her heinous actions (She painted him with sadness in his eyes, guys!) and they take off towards Fairy-Land. But then they change directions five-times, more zombie-deer show up, they end up at a spring party and just… a bunch of other random crap? There wasn’t really any plot outside of, “these guys are totally going to fall in love, and they aren’t supposed to.”However, there were several things I liked about the ending. There is some devious fae twisting-and-turning, and Isobel’s intelligence comes back as she proves she is capable. But by then it was too late, I’d already forgotten to care about the characters. And there's no good resolution for anything? Everything is either 1.) solved way too easily,- like the incredibly evil and built up Alder-King- ALL his oppressive laws. 2.) it's not really solved at all? - Like the fact that Isobel is going to age and die while Rook stays the same forever? Overall:Lots of pretty people and pretty words, not enough substance. There isn’t really a plot outside of the forbidden instalove, so if that’s your thing, you’re in luck. I received an ARC of this in exchange for an honest review, thanks to Simon and Schuster for the opportunity!(Also, all this talk of ‘crafting’ am I the only one that remembers: )