I wiped off my fingers, but it wasn't the mold or maggots making my stomach revolt... No, it was the knowledge that all around me sat empty people in rotting clothes, nibbling on flyblown trifles while they spoke of nothing of consequence with fixed smiles on their false faces.Let’s just rename this book An Enchantment of This User, because this book’s main strength is that it’s so engaging you cannot focus on the flaws. This is one of those books that is just so. freaking. addicting. Were there cringey moments? Totally. Could this book have done with some editing? Yes. But would I totally recommend this? Yes. I was promised morally grey fairies, a great romance, and imagery, and this book delivered - perfectly - on all three fronts. Let’s break it down. No. You surpass us all." Beside me she looked colorless and frail. "You are like a living rose among wax flowers. We may last forever, but you bloom brighter and smell sweeter, and draw blood with your thorns.LET'S TALK FAIRIES. Because hoooooooly shit, guys, this kind of fairy aesthetic is my freaking shit. Fairies in this book cannot feel - or at least, we think they cannot. So this book becomes one about the virtue of emotion. And not emotion from romantic love - emotion in general. One of the side characters has an arc totally revolving around her own emotional heart, without even a romantic element, and it's become one of my favorites. The instalove is… real. Okay, I hate when reviewers lie, so I’m not going to: Rook and Isobel have some major instalove going on, and that’s the point. But to me, their actual dynamic as a couple was fantastic. Honestly, guys, ever since Laini fucking Taylor, queen of instalove that gives me feelings, I have given up on my anti-instalove crusade and joined the anti-boring-couples crusade. TLDR: Isobel and Rook were an entertaining couple. Instalove is fine as long as I’m not bored by the couple themselves. Thanks for coming to my Ted Talk bye don’t @ meOkay, I’m going to make a blanket generalization and I don’t care if you liked this book or not, you have to agree with me here: the writing of this book is fucking masterful. The last time I got chills from a writing style alone was Anna-Marie McLemore’s Wild Beauty, and we all know how that turned out. Fantastic writing can fix a ton of issues, and An Enchantment of Ravens has that fantastic writing down pat. Like, okay, I don’t want to be dragged by my lovely friends in the comments and I don’t want people to get me wrong in what I’m saying: this book had its trashy moments. A lot of them. But even the trashy moments ended up just becoming part of the fun for me because I was so freaking entertained. Good couple dynamic + best writing of the year = good book.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube