I love storytelling. I knew Grimm's Tales were far from cute Disney adaptations and often amoral.However, despite all the assets I had in hand, these Tales bothered me a lot. First, blame it on their often vain appearance, without moral, lesson, or teaching. I then read in the preface that their goal was not to educate or enlighten children but to show them that life will make up of trials, which will have overcome with the help of good people, luck, or persistence. Interesting, but I didn't get it at all.The harsh and often dull style didn't appeal to me, nor did the countless repetitions: how often will a character find alone in the forest at night? Be afraid of wild animals. And climb a tree to sleep? Knowing that, unless I am mistaken, there were lynxes in Brothers Grimm's Germany and that lynxes can climb trees. These Tales have many other repetitions: repeating words, sometimes entire paragraphs, repeating the horrible tortures and unworthy parents who abandon/sell/hurt their children, repeating the magic hat/horse/boots that make up the teleport, or turning everything into gold.Finally, the silly and cutesy side annoyed me. That's no happy ending to a marriage if it is incestuous or if the spouses have known each other for a quarter of an hour. A gaggle of semi-blind or idiotic characters who no longer recognize their relatives after a few months. Ridiculous turns of phrases like 'Little mirror darling' or Jeannot and Margot, who have always called (at least with me) Hansel and Gretel.Far from me pretending to judge the Brothers Grimm negatively, the Tales have rocked and will rock children's generations (unless they give them nightmares). They are part of our shared cultural heritage as a legacy of popular myths and traditions. It's just that they stayed close to me, except for some funny moments, for example, in front of Cinderella's stepmother, who cuts off her daughters' feet, or the tale that ends in a snub because the narrator has forgotten the rest of the story.