Originally, I gave this book 5 stars after marathoning it in one day & loving it so much. After consideration and further discussion, I’m dropping my rating to 4 stars.I did really love Flame In The Mist. The story was entertaining, had some thrilling scenes, and was all around really enjoyable. As always, I love Renee Adhieh’s writing. She has the most delectable prose that is unlike any other YA author out there. Once you get used to it, it’s very easy to get lost in her flowery writing style, and I always love that about her books.I really loved Mariko as a main character. I especially liked how she’s not a typical Mary Sue – she’s an inexperienced fighter and struggles through training, like you would expect someone who has lived a privileged life to do. Though that does not mean she is not a TOTAL BADASS and definitely makes her way through tough moments her own way. I think she’s an admirable character and I really enjoyed her story arc.Despite how much I enjoyed reading the story, I quickly realized I retained almost NOTHING about this world and where the storyline is going. Could it be because I read it so fast? Absolutely. But, this is a recurring theme with Rene Adhieh’s books for me. I love them so so much in the moment as I’m reading, and the next day I can’t remember any specific details. I don’t know if I can fully attribute that lack of retention to my fast reading because it’s happened to me with her past two books, physical and audiobook formats. I think it’s just a case of her ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL WRITING STYLE not always matching up with me as a reader.I also wasn’t a huge fan of the romance. While I do enjoy the way the characters come to complement each other, I think their development was rushed. It felt as if there was no chemistry, and then nothing but chemistry after a certain course of events that just felt unnatural. I would have loved some more time for these characters to grow together as opposed to going from strangers/enemies to acquaintances to immediately lovers.I feel similarly about the magic system, it was presented to in the beginning, but the ending EXPLODED with magic. I initially went into this story expecting a fictionalized feudal Japan and came out with a bit of a fantasy headache. I felt like I didn’t have enough time to grasp how the magic system works because all of the rules/future of the magic system was super saturated in the last handful of chapters. I wish it had been more spread out so that it could have been more easily comprehendible. More magic throughout the story also would have probably sped up a few of the slower scenes.I also want to add a TW for suicide in the first 5 pages of the book. Given, it is a ritualistic suicide which some may view as different, but it's still very graphic and could be potentially triggering. Honestly, you could skip to page 6 or so and you would not have missed anything from the story at all.Despite my small critiques, I really did enjoy this story. It was fun, enjoyable and had interesting character dynamics with beautiful writing. I would recommend it, but I do think you need to be in the mood for a high fantasy with lavish writing & stay really focused throughout. All in all, I’m anticipating book two!