A love triangle that works?! How is that possible?!It's not entirely on your face, that is how!This Red Riding Hood retelling does a very good job at offering a solid fantasy setting with specific powers and with focus on human relationships. Albeit the realization of love comes a bit abrupt just like in Cruel Beauty, the steady development of the story with Rachelle being the focal point of everything is simply great.You have Rachelle, a hoodwinked young woman who is surviving day by day hoping to put an end to the evil that lurks in the Great Forest and even though the trope of being of a special someone that saves the day is very common in all such books, Rachelle sets the tone much better. Her background and the 3 year gap from her fall to the current time show that she was always striving and searching for the weapon that would end the Devourer. Even after the book started, she still failed in her search and things did not just come out of the sky to help her. Everything was just flowing completely natural.Then you have the other 2 love interests; Erec, the playful, yet arrogant person who helped her stand back on her feet and shares the same fate as hers and Armand, the King's nephew who is rumoured to have insidious plans of overthrowing his uncle and the person Rachelle has to protect. The mysteries and secrets surrounding this trio are too many and often things come up too late in a situation, which makes this an even more interesting read. Add to the mix Amelie, who is Rachelle's one and only friend; la Fontaine, the king's mistress; the bishop and his retainer, who are against the king; the whole Great Forest that lurks and you have a solid fantasy book.Even if the romance is a bit awkward, I love that Rachelle is not afraid to go through mud and makes mistakes. She has very relatable thoughts and is being very honest to herself as she knows she has made huge mistakes but does not hide from the fact that she still wants to live. She is humn through and through!In general, a great read with a few flaws here and there, but the concept and execution of various ideas were great. A tad predictable sometimes, but a thorough enjoyable time!