"Everyone tries to be good until it stops being convenient"There's only one reason I gave her works another try: Her writing. It's so fluent. Like that in her previous book, Cruel Beauty. I think this book is better than Cruel Beauty in regards of plot. I loved it.It's also the first Red Riding Hood retelling I read. I enjoyed it because of writing and plot. Otherwise, the character development wasn't upto my satisfaction. I couldn't make myself to die-hard love any of them. Only Armand was leeetle better.  WORLD-BUILDING & CREATURESThe world revolves arround the Forest, which is hidden from the human world. But it can be appeared in anywhere. Considering that it's a Little Red Riding Hood re-telling, author did a good job. Along with humans, there are bloodbounds, forestborns woodwife(s). Forestborns are the loyal servants of Devourer, the antagonist. Forestborns mark humans after which the marked one has to kill someone in three days and become a bloodbound or die.Bloodbounds are to be executed except for the ones in king's army. Woodwife are the one who protects the village from the evil Forest.PLOTRachelle's aunt was a woodwife. She was learning charms from her. One day she met a foresrborn in the Forest who made her bloodbound. He also told her that the Devourer is coming and the world will soon end. She then left her village and joined the king's army and met Erec who trained her. She wanted to kill Devourer and brake free herself from his bond and also free her people. But the king made her the guard of his bastard, Armand. She convinced him to find the only weapon to kill Devourer. -- The biggest problem I faced with this book is non-English words for places. They suck as hell and annoyed me a lot. I don’t see the need for this.-- Mythology of the world is amazing. Liked Tyr and Zisa's story. -- We don't get much of Devourer even though he is the antagonist. We just feel him but not fully see him in person. It might be because he doesn't have any physical form. I didn't like this fact.-- Rachelle's very confusing. It's maybe because of her being a bloodbound. But at some places I really liked her. -- I didn't understand why she had to kill Devourer even after killing him in her body? Like to kill him twice. First Armand killed him with the sword when Devourer possessed her. After that she woke up in Devourer's stomach killed him again? I couldn't understand the logic.**This was an amazing buddyread with  Rida Imran.**14 August, 2018