UNPOPULAR OPINION TIME! Before I start, I'm going to say that, so far, I have never read about a guy I disliked named Armand. And (you guessed it), I liked the Armand in this book too. The book as a whole had a plethora of problems; the romance being the most immediate. Its a damn good thing the romance was pushed to the background in favor of Rachelle's quest to find the Joyeuse sword and kill the Devourer, otherwise, I would have straight up given this a 1, despite its great writing and grit.I hated the love triangle. Actually, I dont even understand why it was necessary. The same thing happened in the author's other book, Cruel Beauty, where there was a completely unnecessary and annoying love triangle between- again- a nice, albeit mysterious, guy, an experience-hardened girl and a guy (or, in that case, a shadow) who rubs on you the wrong way. Let me tell you that the love triangle in this book is no different.The romance is really unbelievable. Rachelle is a cold hearted Bloodbound (I still dont completely understand what exactly this is) who is instructed to protect the Illegitimate heir, Armand, after saving him from a bunch of assassins. Rachelle isnt very happy with this development, and more so since she believes Armand to be a fraud and assumes that he is trying to garner sympathy from the people to secure his place on the throne. Understandably, she is distant and doesn't talk much to Armand for almost the whole of the first half. So imagine my (extreme) surprise when this happened when just 2 chapters ago, she was mocking Armand and telling him that he needs to stop being such a fraud-Her hands overshot the pattern, and nearly jerked the yarn out of alignment. She caught herself, but her wrist brushed against [Armand's], and a tiny shiver went up her arm.Their eyes met. Her face felt hot. Her hands, though gripping the yarn, felt empty.She thought, This is not the way I feel about ErecShe thought, I think I love himWhat you feel, Rachelle dear, is a simple case of lust, not love. Its easy enough to confuse the two considering the bucketfull of love she's experienced, and its not particularly hard to love Armand (by which I mean, it extremely easy), but no, its not love.Granted, I may have believed her towards the end, but at that moment, not really. Despite what they say, you cant just fall into love. Other than the romance, and Erec (who I really dont want to talk about), there is little else I didnt like about this book. The first half was a little messy with the world building being kinda info-dumpy and all the stories and curses being told during and at the end of each chapter so I confess, I was very confused and lost almost throughout it, but since it managed to clean up and start concentrating on Rachelle by the beginning of the second half, which made a lot more sense than the first one. But yet, I couldnt get as into the story as I hoped I could and ended up feeling extremely bored most of the time. Considering this was one of the my most anticipated 2015, I was left very disappointed. The fantasy elements and Rachelle's search for the sword was good, but the romance pretty much killed it for me.