Originally posted on Books with Chemistry.Crimson Bound is the story of Rachelle. When she was 15 years old, she was – let’s say – a good girl. She was being trained by her aunt as the next woodwife (they protect people from the power of the forest), but Rachelle is also reckless. One day, while in the woods with a forestborn, she gets careless for a moment and she’s marked by him, thus being damned: She has three days for killing someone on cold blood and becoming a bloodbound, or else she dies. Rachelle then had to kill someone and the guilt will haunt her for the rest of her life.Three years later, the king hires her as his official bloodbound, with the task of protecting his son Armand. But there’s also an evil force – the Devourer – threatening the city and Rachelle can help for it to be eliminated.I started this book with high expectations. I had read and loved Rosamund Hodge’s Cruel Beauty a few months ago, and so I was eager to picking up this book. This one, however, was more like my kind of book – it has action, gore, sexy romance, fantasy, and a dark world that’s also fascinating.I think this book ended up being better than Cruel Beauty not only for the fact I said before, though. The writing, for once, was better. The descriptions of the forest were beautiful and could give you chills up your spine because of how dark they could be sometimes.I also loved the main character better. Rachelle is a complex heroine, and I loved her for that. She was brave and strong, but she could get selfish or insecure at times, and that made her even more relatable. I’ve said perfect characters are usually not easy to like for me, but flawed ones are more realistic and I like them better.Rachelle was not the only one that way, though. Erec (another bloodbound, and Rachelle’s friend) was complex too. He was impossible to decipher. His personality is a bit seductive and he may appear like a villain at times, but in some others, he could seem like a good guy. The best part about him is that he’s neither and both – just like I like it.And the Armand I talked about in the synopsis is the guy Rachelle must protect. He doesn’t have hands, but hecan handle things perfectly. He was flawed too and I really loved him.There are some hints here and there about Little Red Riding Hood, but the story is not similar at all, so I wouldn’t say this is strictly a retelling. Yes, it’s based upon fairy tales (LRRH and The Girl With No Hands), but Hodge gets original and adds more things to story.The world building and setting were amazing too. Hodge does a great job describing what bloodbounds and forestborns are without overfilling the book with too much information. Most of the story is set in the forest, which was a bit creepy because of that Devourer and the dangers they had to fight, but I loved it.I must say that this book would have been miles better if the audience had not been young adult. There are already some disturbing and sexy scenes, but in my opinion, things would have been more interesting if the book had been aimed at more mature readers.Still, I cannot say that fact prevented me from enjoying this book, because that would be a lie.If you didn’t like Cruel Beauty, I’d say you give a chance to Crimson Bound. They’re not similar at all, and what you might have disliked from the first book, is probably not present in this one.Now, when is Rosamund Hodge publishing another book? I would totally read it.P.S.: The stupid spiral staircase on the cover is giving me the creeps. I blame Marcus Sedgwick's The Ghosts of Heaven for this.