"She didn't want to be a martyr. She didn't have a choice."That quote sums up my reading experience.It took me five months to finish Crimson Bound. Five months. I'd open it, read a few pages, then see a butterfly and follow it until sunset. The characters don't grab me. I don't give a flying fuck about Rachelle or Armand or their irrational quest to find Joyeuse, a sword which can kill the Devourer. They make out/confess their undying love for each other beside a sleeping lindworm and I was praying it'd wake and swallow them both and save me the trouble, but they got away.Rachelle is Jesus. No, I'm serious. The religious overtones are glaringly obvious and leave a bad taste in my mouth. The Bishop is the ultimate good guy, and confessing your sins automatically resolves you of them, cleansing your conscience with a few measly words.Not that Rachelle has any sins. Marked by a forestborn, she needs to kill someone in three days or die herself. She kills her aunt, providing her ample opportunity to brood and look pretty while hating herself. Later, we discover her aunt was fatally wounded and in terrible pain. The forestborn who marked Rachelle was going to kill her anyway. Female Edward actually did her aunt a favor. But that won't stop her from love, right?"Her face was hot. She took a step back, thinking, He isn't yours. He will never be yours. He will never, ever want you."No, wait. She has self-esteem, I swear.“Every day for the last three years, she had thought she deserved to die."She uses her newfound strength and endurance wisely."My lady, I did you honor. I showed you to all the court as a bloodbound terrible and lovely." He stepped closer and leaned down so they were nearly eye to eye. "We're stronger and fairer and we are going to live forever. Why would you want to pretend you're a plodding daylight creature?"[...]She put a hand on his chest to push him back a step. "I told you already. I will die first."The premise is very similar to Cruel Beauty: vague world-building, good-guy-vs-bad-guy love triangle, and a 'dark' heroine whose soul is as black as vanilla ice-cream. Both are loosely based on a fairy tale. If you squint, Crimson Bound is a retelling of Red Riding Hood. Just like Frozen is a retelling of The Ice Queen.I liked Cruel Beauty, but this is just a hot mess.ARC provided by Edelweiss. Quotes taken from an uncorrected galley proof and may be subject to change.Pre-review:The cover design looks a lot like Cruel Beauty...But the blurb says it's NOT part of the Cruel Beauty universe. Why would they make the covers so similar then?