This debut novel inspired by “One Thousand and One Nights” is a fantasy setting which is refreshingly in a non Anglo-French environment. The tale focuses on several different viewpoints but most notably on an old ghul hunter (one of the last of his kind in the area) named Adoulla who is unusually loving and faithful towards his capitol city but sometimes poor at expressing his feelings towards the people he cares about. He has a few close people to him who all end up appearing in his life in different roles during the unfolding of this tale. As Adoulla's ghul hunting continues he eventually discovers something larger and more sinister (not much of a surprise in a fantasy tale, right?) and along the way picks up some more allies. It's a good tale  but the best part is the Arabian flavor simply because I hardly see it well done. This is an exception.  Magic is on the uncommon to rare side and is usually temporarily or permanently taxing. The division between the nobility/royalty and the commoners was spot on. I hate it when those debut fantasy novels have the nobility hanging out with the commoners and befriending them just because they're super nice people. Puke. Adoulla's flawed love relationship was more appealing than the one of his assistant, Raseed. I would say the love interest of Raseed was the weakest supporting character as he was very much the archetype. I have listed more extensive details about the novel in the spoiler section below. Unlike another novel I read recently this series leaves enough things open or kept mysterious enough for me to want to pick up the next book. WRITING STYLE/PROSE/WORD FLOW: B plus; WORLD FOCUSES: B plus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B to B plus; STORY/PLOTTING: B; WHEN READ: March to April 2012 (revised review end of June 2012); OVERALL GRADE: B plus. ** SPOILERS **THE GOOD(1)I like how the people passing by on the crowded streets have character and flavor, like getting angry at the main character for blocking foot traffic. Then there was the bakgam game between two minor characters (an old couple) with some details of it all and one of the players spitting right near the feet of Raseed and Adoulla. Strangely, they didn't react and I suppose that's life in the big desert city.(2) The husband of Latif has a POV which was nice especially as his magic aged him which put him decades ahead of his wife. He was the mostly steady friend who calmed Adoulla down.(3) The way the adults interacted with Adoulla was great. A lot of the supporting and minor characters had their own personalities like the tea shop owner (Yehyeh) who liked to insult Adoulla's ugliness but was really a good friend. His old adventuring friends, Dawoud and Latif (now retired), were nice compliments to the mix. Interesting how Adoulla would look at them and wonder what married life could have been like for him.(4) The introspection of many of the viewpoint characters worked most of the time rather than appeared just as padding. (5) Nice decipherings of texts that actually led to relevant knowledge.(6) Good fight with the little shadow creature (Mouw Awa) that attacked them midstory in Adoulla's home and Zamia almost dying and milking that scene. Too often heroes get hurt and recover too fast.(7) The ghuls were worthy opponents rather than simple pushovers especially at the end.(8) Interesting how the Falcon Prince gets the throne but you can already see he may have mental issues holding it per the magic within the physical throne.(9) The details of the city made it feel real and exotic as I mentioned above.(10) The argumentative relationship between Adoulla and his love interest, Miri, was well done. Even when they argued you could read the subtext of caring emotions and Miri's attempts to make Adoulla swing around when she said was going to marry another man. (11) Nice use of religious values without it dominating the story.THE BAD(1)As already mentioned the girl, Zamia, seemed overly rude and angry to everybody and everybody else seemed unusually patient with her. Probably a pet peeve of mine the more I think about it. Heh.(2) The old take the secret tunnel to the palace that nobody there seems to know about is overused in fantasy and seemed like a bit of a cop out. For new fantasy readers it's fine I've just read it so many times. I think it would have been more interesting if Adoulla had used magic to sneak in or bargained with a djinn at great expense to get in or some other variation. I'm still waiting for the anticlimatic tale in which the heroes sneak under and come out and all get killed or find out that the slaves/servants have revolted and already destroyed the evil enemy. Dare to dream. Heh.(3) OTHER COMMENTARY1.Some have commented that the finale felt weak but I disagree. It was fine even if not really great, I suppose.2.The kid prince telling the Falcon Prince that he was his hero. Not sure how I feel about that one. It felt like a hit or miss so I can't put it as either bad or good.