❤️⭐️Winner of Goodreads Award for Best Adult Fantasy & Sci-Fi❤️⭐️V.E. Schwab writes with a poetic beauty that reminds me of some of the finest authors of our time. This might be a grand statement, but it is that good. Schwab can make words flow like a clear stream of water in a quiet forest. Her language is soothing, without being overly flowery. Gallant doesn't have a rich plot, but it does have well-developed characters. Oliva Prior, a non-verbal teen is trapped and abandoned in an orphanage after the death of her mother. She has no one, or that is what she has been told. When she receives a peculiar letter from a long lost relative telling her to come to live with them, Olivia is perplexed but also relieved. Finally, she gets to have a family, someone who will love her.For a girl living in a quiet world, conversing with ghoul-like creatures through nods and gestures is a blessing and a curse. Olivia is drawn to the power of secrets and magic. What is real, what isn't? When she meets her cousin Mathew, she begins to learn more about the mystery, the hidden garden, and the wall beyond the path. She holds on to a journal written by her mother, trying to piece together the story of her family and her mother's past.    "Everything casts a shadow. Even the world we live in. And as with every shadow, there is a place where it must touch. A seam, where the shadow meets its source"   Gallant is dark, tragic, and heartbreaking, but also warm and moving. The basic desire to belong and be loved is so fundamental to human nature. That is all Olivia wants. Many reviewers found this book to be creepy/scary, but I would call it gothic fantasy. It's not a romance, but a story of fighting death, literally. I kept thinking of the movie Coraline and The Secret Garden while reading Gallant. These two movies together were a unique vibe I was able to conjure. Overall, Gallant was an enchanting fantasy read that would appeal to adults as well as YA readers. The elegant writing is enough to capture your senses. 5/5 Stars.Check out my other reviews:The Invisible Life of Addie LaRueVicious