“I will fight this war to love you, Juliette Cai. I will fight this feud to have you, because it was this feud that gave you to me, twisted as it is, and now I will take you away from it.”  Our Violent Ends brings rivals Roma and Juliette together once again to save their city from monsters. But monsters aren’t the only threat to Shanghai. Communists are competing against the Nationalists for control of the government, workers are organising strikes and a mysterious blackmailer gets a hold of the insects. As Shanghai faces deep political unrest and a potential civil war, it is upto Roma and Juliette to save the city TOGETHER that is if they don’t rip each other apart first.CHLOE GONG IS A SADIST. My heart is still recovering from what I’ve read- a heavy weight resting across its walls. I have an unfathomable amount of pent-up energy inside me and I’m trying not to fall apart crumb by crumb.This book isn’t for everyone, especially not the light-hearted. It is dark and gory and deals with heavy descriptions of war, violence, physical abuse, bloodshed and self-mutilation.I absolutely inhaled this book and the writing style played a huge role in it. Chloe Gong’s writing is suffused with such evocative imagery and an intense sense of resolution and urgency as if anything can happen at any moment; Everyone’s life is at stake. Her ability to point at the brutality and heartlessness of people made the reading experience so much more real and painful. I loved that this book didn’t just focus on Roma and Juliette’s viewpoints alone. It also brought Rosalind, Kathleen, Tyler and Alisa’s povs into the spotlight. I remember hating Tyler in the first book but this book made me view things in his perspective and my heart warmed for him a little. Each character had a different essence and I developed a deep bond with them. No wonder my heart feels so pulverised at this moment. The romance in this book was well-executed and was an amalgamation of the slow burn and the forbidden love trope that made it all the more electric and tantalizing. Having said that, I felt like the last few chapters were rushed. It felt as if the monster and the insect-spread madness was a minor setback as other issues like rising communist sentiment and new alliances were highlighted more. There were relatively fewer graphic descriptions of the insects inflicting madness that resulted in people killing themselves so it all felt a little less raw. But I admit it is insanely difficult to deal with so many conflicts in a 500 page book so props to Chloe for attempting it.