A Hades-Persephone with a mix of Beauty and the Beast retelling hmm. I'll start with the lack of two stars in the rating. Firstly, the quarter half of the book was boring as hell. Compared to the Air Folk Series, I stated how I find them pointless but the writing was spotless. Contrary to this book, I very much see the exposition to the rise of conflict but somehow, the writings sound too amateur. I'm saying this with the knowledge that this was not a debut book from the author, so I don't know what went wrong. Then, we have the elf king himself. This was supposed to be some faerie/elf book but I never found one so humanoid. The couple had routines like a normal couple out there and the magic elements were not so evident. You were supposed to be the elf king, why so mundane (´д｀) I'm expecting him to act like the elf king he should be, somewhere more mysterious and complex. I wish he was a tad more mature and had all this brooding and poised composure but what was offered was quite disappointing. I also do love the couple, but their story was weak. The book features a slow burn romance but somehow, I don't think it was working well with this book. Nothing interesting happened between them nor there any sexual tensions infused, making it unfulfilling. It does get progressive towards the end but with the initial slow burn, it suddenly feels too rapid, their dynamic fell short. And I did say it was boring as hell in the quarter half of the book but as you go in the 10s chapter, it does get better. I think it starts when Luella met Hook! Love how the author accentuates Hook as a character even as a Fade wolf. The author made his presence promising, I love the interactions he had with other characters too. So yes, the sit of few chapters was insufferable but it worths it till the end as the climax and falling action looks favourable. I enjoy getting to know Luella. I love all her remarks and retorts. She knows what she wants and is a wonderful herbalist. Luella is a compelling character who is internally conflicted but wants to see the good in everyone. I like other characters as well, I just had schism with the elf character only. Lastly, not truly a problem but since I am an invested person, I like getting full ideas of the character I read. However, this book offers little to none on what the characters are supposed to look like. Aside from the illustration in the cover book, I can almost make up nothing for my imagination. The full picture came out too late and still with a vague description. That itself is a bummer. Overall, an okay read.