ON SALE!!!! Kindle deal for a limited time for $1.99 01Nov18 at AmazonReREAD before Calamity!!! with my fellow Reckoners at Buddies Books & BaublesLoved it just as much the second time and my favorite new metaphor was.....

The sun sank down like a giant golden pat of butter melting onto the corn of New Jersey. Or … wait. That abandoned city was kind of more like spinach than corn. So the sun sank down into the spinach of Jersey.

It was also theorized that if David made a list the romantic level of vegetables is as follows:Beet > Carrot > Turnip > Parsnip > Potato > Radish > Broccoli > Cauliflower > Lettuce > Brussel SproutDavid should have said beet. 4.25 Sparks that Hurt Stars***Possible Spoilers for Steelheart Below***

Brandon Sanderson (BS from here on) is the master of both the Prologue and the Wrap Up. Every story I’ve read by him has strong and interesting beginnings and some of the most heart-pounding-what-the-heck-is-happening endings. I can’t say that I have read one story where he didn’t just turn things around and surprise me somewhere and ‘sparks’ Firelight is no different. There were times in this that:I was shockedI held my breathI laughed out loudI had theories disprovedI feared for characters and sharksI hit my head wondering where that came fromI needed a buddy to hold my hand thank you AthenaAnd I was amazed by the shear creativity and Calamity of it all It took me on the ride that I’ve come to expect from any BS book. We go to a new city filled with brand new challenges and Epics.

 David has new challenges to face in a in this new peculiar city and new people to tell his incredibly awful metaphors to including things like:
“I felt like a cupcake on a steak plate”&“I mixed with ordinary people about the same way that a bucket of paint mixed with a bag of gerbils.”& “Don’t do anything stupid.''Don’t worry,' I whispered over the line, 'I’m an expert on stupid.''You’re...''Like, I can spot stupidity, because I know it so well. The way an exterminator knows bugs really well, and can spot where they’ve been? I’m like that. A stupidinator.''Never say that word again,' Prof said.” & my personal favorite“You’re like a potato!” I shouted after her. “In a minefield.”
I’m just going to say it…David is geeky adorable and I love it. He is slightly infectious and I really like his rose glasses idea of what the world could be as naïve as it is at times. 

 I wasn’t expecting so many revelations to be made about the Epics, where the powers came from, the random weaknesses, what really drives Epics and Megan. I’m going to admit right now that I thought she was okay in Steelheart but I didn’t love her. After spending a little more time with her in this she is totally growing on me, it could just be that her power is freaking Awesome and I love the whole concept of it or something else entirely. I always like her I’m ready to kill you attitude though and I’m not always sure what side she is playing for.

“Did you just invite me on a date … to spy on a deadly Epic planning to destroy the city?” “Well, I don’t have a lot of experience with dating, but I’ve always heard you’re supposed to pick something you know the girl will enjoy.…” She smiled. “Well, let’s get to it then.”

And the action…It is all over the place with great fight scenes, chasing bad guys, water ballet...etc. All the new Epics all have interesting powers and personalities. Dawnslight is one of the most interesting Epic/Hero ideas I’ve read. I spent most of the book trying to figure that Epic out and it ended up being so much cooler than I thought. Regina is a great bad guy who I was never sure what she really wanted. She is manipulative and Lex Lutharesk in her evil genius plot. Newton (aptly named) and Obliteration rounded out the crew for evil very well. Nothing like a bad guy spewing religious dooms day scripture to lighten the mood. 

 I was slightly sad that we didn’t spend a lot of time with Cody and Abraham from Steelheart I missed them terribly until I didn’t In the end I was so happy that they were no where nearby.Mizzy is my favorite new character. *hands Mizzy a cookie*. That girl is a bundle of fun and she really brought some good humor and bounce into her scenes. I like that David finally has a friend his own age to interact with. She is just a little younger and growing up in a different city it was cool to see how other normal people coped with having Epics around and how the culture of each city could be so different. Firefight has a little bit of everything. There are moral quandaries, romance, friendships, betrayals, huge reveals and a great OMG a great ending. CALAMITY I can’t wait to see how it all finishes. Audio Note: As always the Audio of all Brandon Sanderson books have been awesome and MacLeod Andrews is no exception he is phenominal.