This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life.5 Stars!Sparks! This book is amazing! I could go on and on about how much I loved this book (and probably will in this review). I am fairly new to Brandon Sanderson, having just read the first book in this series, Steelheart, not quite a month ago. My friends on Goodreads have talked about having an ailment called Sandersonitis and I am afraid that I may have caught the bug because I cannot get enough of this stuff. I love the idea of this series. I grew up on superheroes. For a short time, I think I wanted to be Wonder Woman when I grew up (I kind of still do to be honest). The television shows that I watched revolved around superheroes: Wonder Woman, The Incredible Hulk, The Six Million Dollar Man, The Bionic Woman, not to mention cartoons every Saturday morning. I had a Wonder Woman barbie and often paraded around the house in my Wonder Woman Underoos. When my cousins were around, we often stopped all kinds of trouble in our superhero underwear gang. As you may imagine, I was instantly drawn to this series. Epics with superhero powers but with a twist because these are not the save the day kind of superhero at all. These guys can ruin your best day and do so without a lot of thought and nobody brave enough to stop them except the Reckoners. David is a member of the Reckoners. A group that works to destroy dangerous Epics. This book starts with a bang. I don't think that this prolog was quite as good as the one in Steelheart but it was excellent. Each Epic has a highly guarded weakness which is the key to their assassination. David has spent his life learning about these Epics and is very good at finding their weaknesses. After the exciting start to the book, David leaves Newcago with Prof and Tia to help a group of Reckoners in Babylon Restored (the former New York City). I do have to admit that I was a little sad to see the story leave Cody and Abraham behind but I soon learned that the new characters were just as much fun. The new group consists of Exel, Val, and Mizzy. Mizzy was the most likeable out of that group for me. Mizzy was the center of one of the best funniest moments in this book. If I were in charge of the Reckoners, Mizzy would take notes at every meeting. David continues to amuse me with his horrible metaphors. David can be absolutely adorable at time. The Epics that the group are facing in Babylon Restored are frightening and everyone seems to want to take down David, or the Steelslayer as many are calling him. I am amazed at how unique and interesting every Epic introduced in this series has been. In this book, we meet Newton, Regina, Obliteration, and Dawnslight plus a few more. The city itself was completely different than Newcago. Newcago is a city made of steel where the citizens lived in fear while Babylon Restored is a city of water, glowing lights, and plentiful fruit where the citizens have adopted a carefree attitude.I thought the writing in this book was superb. The book had tons of action and suspense and I found it really hard to put down. The prolog immediately pulls me into the story and the ending was non-stop excitement. Brandon Sanderson found just the right balance of humor and action in this story. I would highly recommend this book to others. I would highly suggest that this series be read in order. I cannot wait to get my hands on the next book in this series!