"A dragon without its rider is a tragedy. A rider without its dragon is dead."-Article One, Section One. The Dragon Rider's Codex  游낼 Well, you guys all know how excited I have been for this book release since I haven't been exactly subtle about it, so the big question is, did it meet my unreasonably high expectations? The answer is NO......... because this book exceeded my expectations. WOW!!! What an absolute wild ride! Obsessed is the only word I have to describe how I feel about this book. Every page, every word had me on the edge of my seat, and this book elicits every emotion from you. The absolute unflinching brutality the characters face is both addictive and shocking, but there are also so many triumphs and heart squeezing moments. I am not exaggerating when I say this is my favorite fantasy read this year if not in many years! I can't wait for the next installment to come out bc that ENDING!!!"It seems.... cruel, but the first rule of living at Basgaith is never question a dragon. They tend to cremate anyone they find rude." -Violet 20-year-old, Violet Sorrengail, was never supposed to be facing risking her life in the most brutal and deadly program at Basgiath War College. She has trained her whole life to be scribe but when her mother, a General and the head commander at Basgiath orders her to sign up as a Dragon Rider cadet her odds of survival aren't looking too good. All the odds are stacked against her, from a condition that affects her bones and ligaments that leaves her in chronic pain to the brutal and unforgiving dragons that kill without mercy to her fellow cadets who are just as blood thirsty and willing to kill her to even the odds. Certain death seems to be around every corner. Violet is not going down without a fight though, and she will do everything she can to defy the odds to earn her spot and above all a DRAGON!"But I will not run. I wouldn't be standing here if I'd quit every time something seemed impossible to overcome. I will not die today."-Violet"I'm used to functioning in pain asshole. Are you?" -VioletViolet- I don't say this lightly, but Violet Sorrengail is among my all-time favorite fmc's ever. She is the embodiment of determination, grit and bravery. Her willingness to bet on herself time and again when so many around her keep telling her she will never be good enough is so inspiring. You can't help but root for her as the quintessential underdog bc she never lets herself be a victim despite her physical limitations. She feels like the blueprint for my favorite kind of fmc. "Killing you wouldn't be any trouble Violence. It's leaving you alive that seems to cause the majority of my trouble." -Xaden"Now earn your nickname and try your best to kill me"-XadenXaden- Xaden is the most powerful and brutal Wing leader at the academy and also the main person likely to kill Violet while she is in the Riders Quadrant seeing as how her mother had his father executed for treason. I love Xaden, he only gets more interesting as the story goes on and the heat between Violet and him is hotter than the dragon fire!!! And his signet power is always on my checklist!! (can't say what it is but it's GOOD really, really GOOD) And his nickname for Violet! 游멇릶Presentation Day is unlike any other. The air is ripe with possibilities, and possibly the stench of sulfur from a dragon who has been offended. Never look a red in the eye. Never back down from a green. If you show trepidation to a brown......well, just don't." -Colonel Kaori's Field Guide to Dragonkind.The Dragons They are AMAZING. Lethal, terrifying, and spectacular. They blew my mind, and that's all I can really say bc I refuse to spoil anything. 游낼游낼游낼 "People die, it's going to happen over and over again. It's the nature of what happens here. What makes you a rider is what you do after people die." -Xaden" This place can warp almost everything about a person Vi. It cuts away the bullshit and the niceties, revealing whoever you are at your core." - DainFriends- There are so many great supporting characters that I completely fell in love with and the camaraderie and rivalry between the riders is such a significant part of the story bc you can feel the tension and the anxiety of their circumstances throughout the entire book. Rebecca Yarros has expertly written such a thrilling and compelling introduction book to this wonderful world of dragons and their riders, and I can't wait to see where the story continues!! Is it too early to start the countdown clock for the next book?!!Please check TW besties as this book deals with themes of Violence and War.