No no no no no! You cannot end this book on such a massive cliffhanger!You cannot do this Jennifer!From Blood and Ash was on the list of my top reads during the first half of 2020.I am aware that I sound like a broken record but I loved that book, so much so that I’ve read it numerous times.I didn’t think A kingdom of Flesh and Fire would be as good but Jennifer L. Armentrout proved me wrong. I am absolutely in awe of JLA’s imagination.   I am not going to sugar coat it…A Kingdom of Flesh and Fire is violent and I LOVED every part of it.  Hawke stole my breath away you guys. He is a flawed character but his purpose and sense of duty, love and loyalty makes him more than admirable. When Hawke tells Poppy, “ You’re the first thing I think about when I wake up and the last thought I have when I fall asleep, replacing everything else. It’s why when I’m with you, I can be quiet. I can just be. You know what that means.”  I felt those words ..I felt them to the core of my being. I realise I sound dramatic but I wanted to cry my eyes out and say “Yes I know exactly what you mean.”Poppy is such an amazing character and I do not say that lightly. Does it make me sound morbid when I say that I admire characters that are willing to make sacrifices, make more than difficult decisions for the greater good even if it means death? Even though I have conflicting thoughts about that ..even when I hate it..I appreciate the sacrifices. I loved Poppy’s endless curiosity. I found so much joy when she asked so many questions.. It made this strong, intelligent, kind woman even more beautiful.  There is no doubt that I loved the dynamics amongst the characters. There was such a varied melange of personalities and I LOVED it!  Does it make it sound weird if I admit that these characters felt real? The realistic actions and reactions between characters captivated me. I LOVED that the characters had full blown conversations without it feeling rushed..it’s like, if you are going to sit down and talk about serious important problems..it shouldn’t be done within two pages! So thank you JLA because I found myself nodding my head at the parts where I agreed with where the discussions were headed… scoffing and wanting to voice my opinion on things I didn’t agree.I was more than invested. I am well aware that this is a fictional book but that Ladies and Gentlemen, is the power of Jennifer L. Armentrout’s writing. She brings it all to life. With everything said and done, I must be say that A kingdom of Flesh and Fire definitely had an air of mystery that kept me on my toes. Even when I felt elated during parts of the book, I was waiting for the other shoe to drop and completely ruin my heart. But to be honest, I enjoy the suspense of the unknown. Jennifer L. Armentrout knocked it out of the park with A kingdom fo Flesh and Fire. I cannot wait to read more from this series.