2 Stars***Unpopular Opinion***Le sigh. I know I'm very much in the minority here, so keep that in mind; but off we go... Honestly, I feel like I could just rubber stamp this with a copy/paste of my review of book one, but I will will endeavor to sally forth some minimal effort. Well, okay, maybe some copy/pasting. In my review for book one I said:I feel like Jennifer L. Armentrout (JLA) saw the success of Twilight, A Court of Thorns and Roses, Throne of Glass, and Shadow and Bone and said...Because this book felt like a mashup of all of those series. Especially ACoTAR...for real though. And I still feel that way. I also said: ....holy boredom, Batman. The first 67%+ of this thing was so tedious. SO tedious. It's not so much that I hated it or anything, but more just, well...I feel like JLA could have achieved exactly what she achieved in the first 67% with about half the page count...Things finally started to pick up around 75% and I was happy as a clam by a solid 80% - which is the only reason I rated this thing above 2 stars, actually.I still feel that way as well...with the caveat that I was halfway bored until approximately 80%+ this time. Seriously though, people, borderline nothing happened in this book for a righteously solid chunk except an endless wallow through Poppy's thoughts. And if we weren't in her thoughts, we were listening to dialogue through which she basically repeated all the thoughts we just read about. There's a word for that, which I will "think" and "speak" simultaneously, you know, to save you the time I lost: redundant. When we weren't meandering through Poppy's redundant thoughts and dialogue, we were seemingly wandering aimlessly throughout the countryside and low-key mooning over each other while throwing tired witty verbal barbs like confetti at a surprise party.Also, at least a solid 30% of the book was any one of the following scenarios:-Poppy thinking about stabbing someone.-Poppy talking about stabbing someone. -Someone else talking about Poppy possibly thinking or talking about stabbing someone. -Poppy stabbing someone.-Poppy saying, "I have a lot of questions." -Someone else following that up with, "Of course, you do."-Other characters saying, "I have questions."-Poppy asking a ton of questions. About things we already read her thinking about or talking about. On fucking repeat. Very little happened in this book plot-wise until almost the very end. There was just so much chaff that could have been trimmed, so much aimless meandering through redundant everything: narrative, dialogue, even the characters. They all feel very interchangeable. With no development. And don't even get me started on how immature and clueless a lot of these seemingly centuries-old characters act and just feel on the page. Thank God for Kieran, though (the only character with half a personality) and the somewhat exciting ending, or I would have given this one star. In fact, it's only because of the ending that I will even consider continuing with this series. I must admit I am curious what will happen. But only then because I am going to wait to get book three from the library (like I waited for this one). Honestly, I just couldn't be bothered to actually spend the money finishing this otherwise. Edited to add: For those wondering...if I do read book three and dislike it, I won't rate it. That wouldn't be fair and I'm not here to hate read just for a trash review. My review for book one for those interested: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...