UPDATE 2023: It's time for a re-read - fourth one it seems 😂 - what can I say, everything else bores me to tears right now, and I know IA is just the cure for it. - Honesty this series makes for the best kind of binge reads.Every book by Ilona Andrews has been exceptional so far.IA books have the best world building, they are always incredibly stunning in detail and description. But they also never overwhelm with super in depth descriptions as some high fantasy books do. The detail are just enough to make me feel like I could see it with my own eyes. Whenever I read one of their books I dive into a world that's vibrant, fascinating and keeps me glued to the pages until the very end. Their books are non-stop reads for me. No interruption ALLOWED!!!The idea of different Houses having different magical abilities is fascinating. Children are born just to expand a lineage and produce even more powerful mages. Each house has one or more primes, and their magical skills are scary and dangerous. Some houses are able to communicate and control animals, others are able to wield incredible power and manipulate the elements. Some are able to read minds, others grow plants. Love how detailed and complex this world is.Nevada Baylor a truthseeker, keeps her magic hidden, otherwise she would be used by agencies to interrogate people in the most invasive ways. Her ability is feared by everyone.Connor "Mad" Rogan is already the most feared and dangerous man in Houston, he is jaded after being used as a weapon for the military.Nevada, of strong character with a high moral compass does everything to keep her families private investigation firm afloat. When she is forced to accept a contract she does so under duress and with the knowledge that the outcome could be dire. As it happens she stumbles upon Mad Rogan and goes immediately head to head with him. Her inner strength, integrity, and loyalty is irresistible to Connor.Realizing that they need each other to have a fighting chance in closing the case, Nevada and Mad Rogan become partners in a dangerous chase against the clock.What I've always loved about any Ilona Andrews novel is the layered plots and story arcs. The complexity of their novels, multiple arcs and twist, on top of unique and captivating characters turn their books into fascinating reading experiences. The authors are masters of creating the most fantastic stories that boggle my mind and make me devour each and every of their books. Outstanding and impeccable writing makes this duo one of the best in this industry.On top of that they write the most hilarious and entertaining dialogues. The amount of dialogue often decides how much I enjoy a book. Add to it the quality and you got yourself a unputdownable book. Dialogue in my opinion is one of the most challenging aspects of writing a story. It allows for flow and movement. And it makes the characters seem real. I can almost see them with my eyes. And their writing does just that - again and again.Now after I finished Burn for Me for a second time I can't wait to dive into White Hot (Hidden Legacy, #2) and Wildfire (Hidden Legacy, #3). The excitement is making me GIDDY!!!