I wanted a fast pace Urban Fantasy with a strong but caring heroine, a dangerous Alpha love interest with a hidden heart and some smut. Burn for Me delivered on all accounts. Urban Fantasy is my go to genre when I need something light, fun and the right amount of sexy. Ilona Andrews is one of my favourite writers for this type of books and I knew I couldn’t go wrong with her new series. I love Kate Daniel’s adventure but I wanted something new and maybe a little bit more romance so decided to start the Hidden Legacy.Nevada Baylor is a 25 years old, attractive woman who owns a small private detective agency. She lives and works in a warehouse together with her extended family: grandma, mother, 2 sisters and 2 cousins. Nevada’s world is bit different than ours. During the 1800’ a serum was discovered which conferred magical powers to people. Those powers differed in strength and form and were passed to offsprings. Although the serum was banned after its dangers became obvious, people continued to posses magical talents and the society changed in order to favour those with magic. The most potent magic users, the Primes became the leaders of Houses which pretty much controll the world. Nevada has her own special skill, namely she can tell if someone is lying, a handy talent to have in her job. Her relatively safe existence is shattered when she is hired to locate one of the most wanted criminals and to bring him to his family unharmed.Mad Rogan is a former soldier with a destructive power, a Prime and the leader of a powerful House. He is tangled in the same investigation in order to protect one of his relatives. The paths of Nevada and Rogan will intersect and, although they had a bad start they will be forced to work together. I enjoyed Nevada’s characters and the relationship with her family. I particularly loved her bad ass, tanker fixer, grandma. An Rogan, well, he is hot. :)) I do like an alpha whose heart needs to be discovered, although I wouldn't touch this kind of person in real life. Also, because in real life assholes usually remain assholes. It was funny, full of action and I can’t wait to read the 2nd volume asap. P.S. The 2nd one is almost done ;)