so i'm going to leave my initial review below bc i think it's funny how differently i feel about this book now!i definitely stand by my assertion that this book is best consumed with eyes on page. the audiobook narrator for the male love interest did NOT do him justice. and i do think that while nevada is a perfectly fine main character, she isn't overwhelmingly special.but that being said, i really did enjoy this book the second time around. i think the nuance to mad rogan's character was really subtle and getting to read it physically especially helped me appreciate it. i was also watching gilmore girls around the same time that i was reading this book and wow i get big jess mariano vibes. very sardonic & mildly alpha vibes. definitely made me want to get to know more about his character and i'm excited to do so in the subsequent books.the plot was still not my absolute favorite. i did appreciate the near constant action but there were times when i was just not that invested in what was happening. i think it set up the next books well but this particular storyline was just kind of okay for me.ANYway, i think this is a book that has pretty broad appeal both for paranormal romance readers and YA/NA fantasy romance readers. if you like Rhysand, you will probably like Mad Rogan. i can definitely foresee me recommending this book frequently in the future soooo go pick it up :)_____________________eh.this was... not bad. i just think audiobook was not the best format for me & this book. i need something i can occasionally zone out with, and not be completely confused. this wasn't that. which i kind of knew going into this because it's an urban fantasy...but i think the bigger problem is that for me, there is a fine line between paranormal and urban fantasy. and i'm coming to find out that by and large i do not like urban fantasy, sadly.objectively, this is a pretty cool concept. humans have found ways to augment their abilities (i.e. telekinesis, telepathy etc). and the richer and more powerful humans have better powers and have started to marry/breed to become more powerful. (i also liked that this was set in houston, but that's just me).but subjectively, i just didn't care? i didn't find nevada to be that compelling. she seemed like pretty much every other paranormal/urban fantasy heroine. gritty but still emotional. hidden trauma probably in her past. stunningly beautiful and very talented. and mad rogan seemed like kind of a tool, like a lot of paranormal/urban heroes.and to be honest, getting to the 60% mark i really just didn't care where the story was going. there was a lot of running around to catch the bad guy and bring him back to his family but nothing seemed strategic or bad ass. i'm honestly getting bored just writing this review. i'm sure these are good books, and that thousands or people are not wrong. but i was just underwhelmed and i probably will not continue with the series.