Like many readers, I was blown away by Susanna Clarke’s debut novel, Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell, which won both the Hugo and the World Fantasy Award upon its publication in 2005. I was a bit late to the party, not getting to Jonathan Strange until 2013, but within 24 hours of finishing it I was on my way to the library to pick up this short story collection, Clarke’s only other published work. The Ladies of Grace Adieu is a collection of eight stories set in the same universe as Jonathan Strange, and all eight have something to offer:The Ladies of Grace Adieu: Clarke's first published story (1996), this tale is set in the early 19th century and describes how three young women use magic to “flip the script” and exert some much-needed power in a patriarchal society. I don’t know how much editing (if any) Clarke did when she included the story in this 2006 collection, but I thought this was a pretty incredible debut and a very memorable short story.On Lickerish Hill: Clarke does Rumplestiltskin. The 17th century Suffolk prose takes a bit of getting used to, but I thought it was a nice touch. A familiar story, but well told.Mrs Mabb: Maybe my favorite story of the entire collection, featuring a 19th century woman trying to win her fiance back from a mysterious lover. Very strong.The Duke of Wellington Misplaces His Horse: Another excellent short, this one starring the Duke of Wellington who wanders into the realm of Faerie by mistake. Readers familiar with Jonathan Strange (which featured the Duke as a supporting character) will get a kick out of this one.Mr Simonelli, or the Fairy Widower: Mr. Simonelli must choose a wife while battling a strange Faerie aristocrat. Some very cool details surrounding Faerie magic, but this was not my favorite story of the bunch.Tom Brightwind, or How the Fairy Bridge was Built at Thoresby: Clarke is praised so often for her razor-sharp prose, her inspired characterization, and her other merits that it’s easy to forget how funny she can be. That dry, understated humor is on full display in this short story, featuring a Jewish doctor and his flighty Faerie friend. I really enjoyed this one.Antickes and Frets: A reimagined version of the detention of Mary, Queen of Scots. Some cool magical elements, but one of the less memorable stories in the collection for me.John Uskglass and the Cumbrian Charcoal Burner: Another story that will please Jonathan Strange fans. This short piece of pseudo-folklore tells the legend of how the great Raven King was outwitted by a humble charcoal burner. Another example of Clarke’s gift for humor and a very fun read.ConclusionClarke is one of the finest talents in fantasy today, and this collection shows why. Clarke modifies her writing style from story to story, depending on the voice she is trying to craft, but all eight are superbly written (especially if you have a taste for 19th century prose, which many of these stories mimic). If you’ve read and enjoyed Jonathan Strange, you should get your hands on this collection. 4.5 stars, highly recommended!