cw: mentions of torture, (stabbing, sex, stabbing, sex and more sex)oh boy do i have a lot to say.i wish i had a knife to stab both the mcs in the heart. repeatedly. for days. and then stab cas some more when he, inevitably, tells me that that turns him on.im proud to be the 17th person to rate this 1 star. i mean im worried about yall's standards, but im proud of my rating.all the reviews saying this is better than the first book are driving me insane considering how the pace here is so. much. slower. it dragged out for ageeeees. i can't believe im finally FREEthe 1st book is full of action and plot twists, this one has *checks notes* poppy stabbing cas, him being turned on by that and *checks notes again* oh yeah  nothing else.  im so frustrated. with the foundation the ending of  from ash and blood  layed for this sequel it could have been so good. so good. i mean  enemies with benefits? fake marriage? villain/mc romance? all in one?  jla said why choose tropes if i can do it all.but here's the thing, this book fucking sucks. bc while it's an interesting dynamic it gets tiring after a few hundred pages. she's a badass who likes to stab people. he's turned on by violent women. got that. you don't need to mention these things every chapter. the author should have trusted the reader's intelligence instead of using repetitive prose to reinforce the characters' archetype. subtext is your friend, why are you so scared to use it? plus  absolutely nothing happens for 600 pages.  all we have is the romance which gets boring quickly because it feels like their interactions are the exact same and you're just reading different variations of the same scene over and over. they fight, she stabs or threatens to stab him, they fuck, the end. are you tired of me mentioning the word stab and sex yet? does it feel like im repeating myself? does it feel like a  waste of your fucking time?  and look their dynamic is fun but when nothing else happens and thats all we have to sustain the story? not so much. i loved them at the begining, but i cannot stand them now. they spend almost 300 pages in the same location and then even when SOMETHING happens in the last 100 pages they...fuck. in the middle of a war. yep. of course. might as well. GET A FUCKING THERAPIST OH MY GOOOOOOOD. take a sit sarah j maas. this dynamic and trope is everything to me. everything. its my number 1 trope i love it to death. im honestly impressed this author managed to make me hate this so much. like that took effort of jla's part. it truly did. i applaud it. im gonna need a good villain/mc romance now to get over my frustration over my unmet wishes. or not read this dynamic for a very long time unless i know the writer knows what they're doing. anyway i hate this fucking book fuck this book FUCK THIS BOOK