I know we frown upon picking favorite books here, but you know what? This is my favorite book of all time and y'all can leave.Maybe there were people who lived those lives. Maybe this girl was one of them. But what about the rest of us? What about the nobodies and the nothings, the invisible girls? We learn to hold our heads as if we wear crowns. We learn to wring magic from the ordinary. That was how you survived when you weren’t chosen, when there was no royal blood in your veins. When the world owed you nothing, you demanded something of it anyway.Okay, listen, I could talk about how much I love everything about this series forever, although I think I already did while writing my review for Six of Crows. I love the twisty and creative plot, I love the morally grey characters, I love the group dynamics and banter, I love the engaging writing, I love all three of the romance plots (yes, I just lost all my credibility as an unromantic.). This series truly is my favorite fantasy series of all time, and this book is one of the only conclusions I've ever given five stars. I think it's rare to find a book that, for me, is both entertaining and thematically satisfying. 🌺 THE CHARACTERS 🌺Who's my favorite character, you ask? I DON'T KNOW. probably Inej. The point is that FIVE of these characters make my top-ten fictional-characters-ever list. There are two series which managed to get two characters on that list, but this series shoved on FIVE. 🌲 Kaz: He's the most morally black protagonist I've ever read about, and I love him to pieces. Yes, his plans go too far and get crazy here, but honestly, if Bardugo can think it up, I'm willing to accept that Kaz can too. Kaz gets even more of a human side in this book, which comes out through his relationships with Inej, Jesper, Wylan, and even Nina. Not Matthias, because Matthias somehow never makes these lists. Sorry, bud. 🍁 Inej: I asked Leigh Bardugo one question at the panel where I met her, and that was her least favorite villain. She said Tanta Helene, ruler of the menagerie, and after this book I definitely understand why. Inej went through hell and came out stronger and far more in control. I know there are those who hate how controlled she is, but I think it's realistic. She's controlled around everyone except for Helene, who's her worst nightmare come true. I love that Inej isn't a chosen one, that nothing in her blood gives her agency. None of these characters are; Jesper and Nina both neatly sidestep the chosen one archetype with every second of pagetime. 🌲 Jesper: JESPER!!!! He's developed so much and I didn't really expect it. Jesper likes living on the edge, a bit like Lila Bard from ADSoM. He's aware of his flaws and he's aware of the pain his own actions have caused him, and he's trying to work through it. His relationship with his father makes me want to cry. 🍁 Wylan: In the first book, Wylan is likable but annoyingly naive. In this book, he's fucking awesome. He's a cinnamon roll but he's also willing and able to kill you, so basically, he's a character designed for me to love. His arc essentially turns him from a naive kid into an antihero, and I love that. His relationship with his father took a front seat here, but it was almost emotionally cathartic to read their interactions. 🌲 Nina: Nina is idealistic and clever and can go from flirting to making speeches within ten seconds. She's definitely a bit of an antihero– she can be , but she's also a ton of fun to see on page. Her struggle with the Jurda was developed well here, and her powers are still fucking awesome. 🍁 Matthias: He's always been my least favorite of the dregs, but you know what, I liked him a lot here. Rereading, it struck me how much respect the narrative gives this character without romanticizing the things he's done. His arc is pitch-perfect. I still don't love him nearly as much as some of the dregs, but that's a totally unfair standard to hold any character to. I'm sorry, Matthias, in any other book you'd stand out.🌺 RELATIONSHIPS, ROMANTIC AND NOT 🌺Inej and Kaz were always the standout couple of this series to me. The genuine care between them despite all they've been through gets to my emotions. (Which I apparently have! Who knew.) They're even better in Crooked Kingdom. Here, the narrative addressed these two character's traumas and didn't skate over them. Neither of them are ready to kiss yet and that's okay. What matters is that they emotionally open up to each other, let each other through the walls. (source look at my children guys)I would have come for you. And if I couldn't walk, I'd crawl to you, and no matter how broken we were, we'd fight our way out together-knives drawn, pistols blazing. Because that's what we do. We never stop fighting.Jesper and Wylan were a vaguely cute ship for most of book one until that one line at the end where Leigh Bardugo decided to start breaking my heart in two. Here, they started putting my heart back together thank god. They don't have a particularly angst-filled storyline, but their banter is hilarious and the trust in their relationship is so important to me. “You’re stupid about a lot of things, Wylan, but you are not stupid. And if I ever hear you call yourself a moron again, I’m going to tell Matthias you tried to kiss Nina. With tongue."Wylan wiped his nose on his sleeve. “He’ll never believe it." "Then I’ll tell Nina you tried to kiss Matthias. With tongue.”Matthias and Nina were honestly not that big a ship for me in book one. I absolutely understand what's appealing about their dynamic; they're sweet and have amazing relationship development. But I don't have to lie down for twenty minutes when I read their scenes. The Dregs are such an amazing squad all together. There are so many platonic relationships here to break your heart; Jesper and Inej, Inej and Nina (although lbr they're a little gay), Kaz and Wylan, Jesper and Kaz. Jesper and Inej still have one of my favorite friendship dynamics of all time. Their banter and their genuine trust in each other and their lowkey joking about their mutual crush on Kaz... it gets to me. 🌺 PLOTTING AND WRITING 🌺All I can say is: brilliant. Every twist is pitch-perfect. This 500+ page book barely even lagged for me. I read this entire longass book in one bingeread, it was that hard to put down. Bardugo incorporates plotting and character work seamlessly into every moment without sacrificing tension or twists. 🌺 BUT WHY DOES IT STAND OUT? 🌺There's one thing I wanted to say about this book that I didn't say about Six of Crows: the theme of this book is hope. Crooked Kingdom is about healing from what's happened to you. Maybe these characters come out of what they've been through as different people, but they're alive and they're coping and they're happy. It's not about curing your injuries and fixing your trauma, it's about learning to cope with what you've been given. [spoilers ahead]  Kaz isn't magically cured of his touch sensitivity– him and Inej never kiss, and yet they still make it work, and somehow them HOLDING HANDS was the most intimate passage I've read ever. Wylan never learns to read, but he gets to drag his father to hell and back for all the trauma he's been through, and it was both the funniest and most cathartic thing I've ever read. I'm writing this Nov 6th and I've already reread this scene three times. It says so much for Leigh Bardugo's talent that she executed this narrative so perfectly. I know many have an issue with the execution of a certain death in the book, but I honestly have no issue with said death. Yes, it's frustrating. I think it's meant to be. [spoiler] This is a character that has done terrible things due to his upbringing, brought down by a boy doing terrible things due to his upbringing. It's horrifying and poetic all at once. Bardugo has also implied said death may have occurred so another character might get their own spinoff, which I am completely here for. But even ignoring the death itself, I think it's done so well that I can't complain at all. Rereading his scene, it struck me just how sad it made me, despite the character being by far my least favorite character.Another thing I like, and excuse me for going on so long - the fact that the narrative emphasizes bigotry and taking away another's agency as the worst crimes of humanity is so. important. The moral code of the characters in this series is both flawed and realistic. They've grown up in an environment where it's kill or be killed, and their actions often range on evil. Yet these characters still have a code. Even Kaz, who legitimately plucks someone's eye out in part of book one, is emphatically not a fan of slavery and bigotry. Some of these characters have experienced this and come out alive, and they're righteously angry. I also love the emphasis on the evil of the elite taking from the poor, because that's what these characters deal with.I'm not even bothering to write all my ending thoughts anymore, but I went on a twitter rant about my adoration for this ending HERE if you want to check it out. VERDICT: This is probably my favorite book of all time. I'm seriously not joking. I think this is it. I'm not ready to say goodbye to these characters, but this was a glorious conclusion and I'm glad Bardugo stuck with two books. Recommended to everyone ever.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube