“You don't go into battle because you're sure of victory. You go into battle because it's the right thing to do.” going into this book was kind of like going into battle mostly because the start was so boring(it did redeem itself in the end but still)The Shadow Queen: 3 starsbuddy reading with my favourite: maggie believe me without you to rant to or laugh with, I would have left this book halfwaySadly, this is one of those books where things only start to get more interesting in the last few chapters. It is no shocker that I was not a huge fan of the main character but given time I started to like her a lot better in the last few chapters. This story was said to be a Snow White retelling but apart from both the character’s pasts their stories have nothing else in common which was kind of a turn off for me personally. Sorry but first off why is her name Lorelai Diedriech,idk why but her name weirded me out. Her character started off pushy, whiny and downright irritating but thank the gods by the end which means in the last few chapter I started to see her good qualities like her selflessness, quick-thinking and loyalty. She is also the  first royal in a fantasy series to make the word fetch happen.Excuse me while I cringe forever,,, that scene has scarred me even though it was supposed to be stupidLiterally the only thing that made reading this worthwhile was Kol, the prince that could shape-shift into a dragon who was also the sweetest thing ever. I have no idea how to describe except that he was a cute fluffball who managed to save the story. I managed to like Lorelai a lot more when she started to accept Kol for who he was and was more accepting of him.The queen, Irina was definitely more interesting as a character than I had expected her to be. She was way more evil and the fact that she was a witch, well a mardushka made her even more of an interesting character to follow. Although, most of her actions at first seemed wasteful and evil without a reason we soon find out what exactly it is that drives the queen’s hatred so that was a nice change.[image error]Bonus points goes to Gabril for being such a sweet and caring father figure in this book and being a hilariously overprotective guardian of Lorelai. He was honestly the guidance that the character needed in this book, and I’m glad that their relationship is strong. Also Sasha, was so strong and helpful. Now if you’re thinking who is this Sasha chick, well she’s a falcon . I honestly wonder what was going on is Lorelai’s head when she decided to name her dangerous pet, Sasha.The plot of this book, was definitely really slow at the beginning. I caught myself skimming through parts because it really could not hold my attention. But that being said I’m glad I sticked around for the end because the last few chapters were fast paced and way more fun than the first 30 chapters combined. The magical element plays a huge role in this retelling and it was really interesting to how it plays out. But this retelling did not stick to the original at all. (gets a little spoilery from here)I mean looking at the cover, I would have at least thought that there would be the classic apple scene,,, but nope, nothing not even the dwarves. The ending was definitely quite expected but i liked it! The whole kissing the girl to bring her back was quite obvious.But that being said, I still was quite glad with the ending and the way that Lorelai was at the end. The epilogue was so sweet. The magic was so badass and also this scene from Snowhite and the Huntsman and the book are so similarI may have had issues with this book in the beginning but it was quite alright I guess if you are alright with waiting a while before the plot starts to kick in. Overall, it was quite alright however, I’m probably never going to reread this ever again.Pre-Reading:I have never read CJ Redwine's books and this is going to be my first, plus the plot looks pretty coolFairy Tale Retelling: CheckDragons:CheckMagic:CheckNeedless to say, i am really really excited to read this! But it cAn turn into a torture to finish especially since so many people hated it! But i am excited to see where this heads :) especially since i am buddy reading this with maggie so at least i can rant to her if it turns out sucky,, (hehe)