2.5 stars The Shadow Queen is a YA retelling of Snow White. I always really love fairy tale retellings and the cover is beautiful, so color me intrigued.The book begins with a “once upon a time” backstory that very quickly explains how the evil Queen Irina came to rule Ravenspire by killing the king and how Princess Lorelai became a fugitive at large. The story then picks up nine years later. Lorelai is determined to get her rightful throne back, but in the meantime she must get better at using magic. Magic is the most important thing when it comes to defeating Irina. That’s the one thing both Irina and Lorelai have that no one else in Ravenspire does (because they are Mardushkas, which is only passed through the bloodlines of the Morcant). Lorelai must hide from the queen until she believes she is strong enough to defeat her.The princess hasn’t forgotten about her people who are suffering under Irina’s reign. Her young brother, prince Leo, and Gabril help her to steal food from the garrison that basically belongs to the queen and give it to the starving people of Ravenspire. This all felt pretty Robin Hood-esque to me. I appreciated the additional nod to a classic tale.There’s another side to the story. We meet Prince Kol, the second born prince of Eldr (a neighboring kingdom to Ravenspire). The kingdom is experiencing an invasion of ogres that their own army can’t deal with due to magic. Kol’s father and brother are killed making Kol the king, even though that was always supposed to be his brother’s path. Fun twist about Eldr is that the people are Draconi meaning they can shift into dragons. Yes..Kol is a dragon too. I guess that is pretty awesome. Kol decides to go to Ravenspire in an attempt to solve the ogre invasion. He plans to make a deal with Queen Irina asking her to use her magic to defeat the ogres. What Irina wants in return leads to Kol becoming the huntsman. She wants Kol to find Lorelai and bring her to the queen.There is a whole lot more to the plot, but that is pretty much the basis to the story. To be completely honest, at times I was bored. That’s where my rating kicks in. Other than that, I enjoyed the author’s twist on Snow White. There was plenty of action and some romance involved. The characters were a bit underdeveloped, but perhaps they were supposed to be their stereotypical counterparts.I love the that this is the first in a series of stand alone novels. They are supposed to be set in the adjoining kingdoms we see in the map at the beginning of the novel. I hope we see some of the characters we’ve already met again. I’m curious what other retellings will be included.If you are a fan of YA fairy tale retellings or just really love Snow White, you will probably enjoy  The Shadow Queen.I received an ARC in exchange for an honest review via edelweiss.