One one hand, this is a compelling narrative, in that I read it FAST. It only took a few days for me to read this ~600 page book, which likely has a higher word count than most books of its size as exposition is rarely delivered via dialogue. The biggest reason I read this quickly is that I just connect with Robin Hobb's writing style. She just seems to always use the right combination of words to have me glued to the page regardless of what is happening. If she wrote a 600-page book about paint drying, I'd likely read it because it would be so well written.But on the other hand, from a plot (and character...alas) standpoint, I did not find this a compelling narrative. Hobb's plots move slowly - or take their time, which is my preferred description - and this one was no different, but perhaps the one of all her books that has most tested my patience. This is one of those books that when a detractor would say "the plot only did 3 things" as a point to say the book is bad, I would have to begrudgingly agree. Because the plot was more focused on slice of life for most of the book and big events rarely happened.The biggest disappointment was that the characters are not as compelling here as in her other works, namely every series within The Realm of the Elderlings. The biggest flaw was a wholly unremarkable protagonist who rarely decides on a course of action, and just lets things happen around him. (It reminded me of so many of Haruki Murakami's interchangeable protagonists that sit back and let things happen to them). As this was a first person narrative, getting a narration from a character that is almost paralyzed by making any strong decisions didn't leave me frustrated (although I'm sure some will use those terms), but definitely left me disappointed, and caused (for me at least) a total disconnect from all of the characters in the story, since we are seeing them from Navare's eyes.Overall, it's a good book, but probably my least favorite of the 17 novels of Hobb I've read. I still want to see where the story is going, because I do trust the author that has penned my favorite book series of all time, but don't feel highly compelled to pick it up right away.