Oh how I wanted to love this book. Oh how disappointed I was! So this review will be the "Ode of Oh's". Oh how did this book get so popular?I was given this book by a family member with excellent reviews but I can't see why this person-who-shall-remain-unnamed liked it so much. I enjoyed the detailed descriptions of the world and the excellent character building (we literally watch Nevare grow) but the "liking" stops there. Oh Nevare, why have you no balls?Nevare is a fucking coward, and the sad part is, he is FULLY aware of it! I cannot count the number of times he refers to his actions as cowardly and never makes a resolution to change! He has spent so much of his life being told what to do that he is incapable of listening to his own criticisms. He is too willing to listen to authority. I was never sure whether his choice to be a soilder was what he ever REALLY wanted. He does it because the one god decrees it, he does it because his father tells him to, but is that what he wants? He learns a bit about women's rights by the end of the novel and goes as far as asking his betrothed whether she really wants to marry him or whether she's following her family's wishes, but he never turns that thinking onto himself. Is she being forced into marriage and is he being forced into the cavalla? I don't know. I don't think I'll ever know. (SPOILER WARNING)Oh why does Nature lose the fight?Yea, Nature loses out in the end! Tolkien is turning in his grave. Tolkien was the guy who brought the trees to life to fight "the industry" (A.K.A. Saruman and his team of destructive orcs/goblins). Hobb was the woman who makes the lush and magical Tree-Woman the dragon slayed at the end of this book. So strange that Nevare's environmentally-friendly half is one who turns out the be the evil twin. Lastly...Oh why are we othering the Others?This part of the novel probably bothered me the most. The book obviously has a lot of Native American/colonization influences and yet the People (as they are referred to in the novel) turn out to be the bad guys, with no hope of redemption. Nevare goes to a fair and sees them caged, and there is a moment where he feels the tragedy of the situation but those thoughts are buried under the sexual attraction Nevare and his mates feel for the female Speck and the all-important Dust Dance performed. We find later that it is during this dance they managed to infect the entire city with a plague contained in their magical "dust". So basically, the "Indians" were the ones to hand out the smallpox in this book? Really? The people deemed "uncivilized" by the conquering nation were the bad guys?? Wow.All in all, I'm going to hand this book back to the person I borrowed it from with a fake smile plastered on my face and a polite, "Oh, it was very...interesting."