So this book was one I went into with slight trepidation becuase the ratings here on Goodreads aren't great and I'd heard that this wasn't as strong as Hobb's Realm of the Elderlings books (which are my favourites). I am glad that I still gave this one a chance in spite of all that, because I loved this book and found that all the things I enjoy about Hobb's writing within the Realm of the Elderlings books are carried over into this series too.This series has a focus on one main character (much like the Fitz books in Realm of the Elderlings) called Nevare. Nevare's character felt distinctly different to me from Fitz's character, and once again I could see that Hobb has clear talent for making realistic characters who I can relate to and sympathise with as a reader. Nevare lives in a world where people are born into the roles they will take. The first son is always the heir, the second son is always a soldier etc. Nevare is the second son so his life is laid out and he is destined to become a soldier, right from birth. What I liked about this set up, is that it would have been easy for Hobb to make Nevare either super awesome as a soldier or terrible, and yet she doesn't. What Hobb does is she makes him a middling character who has to learn to take control of his life through various experiences. The magic within this focuses largely on, and draws from, traditional folklore and fairy tale. We have a lot of nature-based magic, tribal cultures and ancient religions. We also see spell work (although not much), seances and ghosts. All of the magic within this series is again, distinctly different to that within the Realm of the Elderlings, and so this feels completely like its own story. At the start of this story we follow Nevare and get to know him as a child growing into a young man. He has a lot to learn about how to be a leader, and one of Nevare's biggest challenges is to fight against his own nature to obey. All his life he's known what his role will be, served his father faithfully, and unquestioningly, and hasn't had to 'think' for himself that much. As the story goes on we follow Nevare as he journeys with a tribesman to learn more about himself, encounters creepy woodland god-like beings and goes to the Academy to begin his training. I would certainly say that once this story got going, it definitely got going, and I found myself getting more and more hooked into what was happening and how Nevare and those he cared for would fare. On the whole, this book went from strength to strength for me and really pleasantly surprised me. I ended up coming to root for and really like Nevare (and some of his friends) and I also found myself totally intrigued by the magic of this world and the Specks in particular (a people we meet later in the novel who cause some pretty dramatic things to happen). I will certainly be moving onto book 2 fairly soon, and I would highly recommend that you check out this book despite the low ratings if you like Hobb's other work, becuase I think this stands alone as a new series and is definitely different, but good! 4*s overall, recommended!