This book, although belonging to the Fantasy genre, is much more an indebt analysis of human prejudices, how and why we learn whom and what to love or hate, to strive for or put down. It is a world which is reminiscent of either North or South America, at the time of European colonization, and the main POV is a young and impressionable man, who wants to be brave and honorable, wants to perform his duty to family and King, and is all together a good person, who is a second son of a second son of a noble line. The second sons are expected to be soldiers and are raised to be such since birth. Our hero was a very gentle child, and his father removed him from his mother's care when he found out he likes to play tea with his sisters and their dolls. From there on he tries to understand what is right and wrong, why his father puts him through some very harsh testing, which almost kills him, and how to grow into the expectations of him. While he belongs to the Colonizers, he is fascinated by the native peoples, of whom we are introduced to two main factions. This is where magic gets involved, and it is more of shamanic mysticism then what we think of magic today. It is neither good or bad, but it is what the natives use to protect themselves, and our naive and gullible trusting young man becomes the tool all sides of the conflict decide to use against one another. This book doesn't have any action as such, but gives us a wonderfully intense and uncomfortable study on the expectations of society and how it shapes us at our best and worst. Colonialism, Ecology, every type of racism, fat-phobia, misogyny, classism, ridiculously artificial separations just so one group could feel better than another... All of those in their most nuanced reality are laid out on the pages, while we follow Nevare Burvelle from childhood through his first year in a military academy. Robin Hobb is a master storyteller. She has the ability to lull you into a sense of comfort with the ease of her prose, and catches you unaware with the casual cruelty, mirroring our own history and bleeding into today's inequities. The truth of her tale is very uncomfortable, but is poignant and undeniable. It reminded me of some of the European classics, and this is a complement in my mind 👍🙂. This is not a happy, or light book, but it is not dark or violent. It doesn't have sex, violence, action or superheroes. It is a panoramic view of the life of a man who is looking for his place, while life is presenting him with myriad of challenges. I would definitely recommend it to the more patient readers 😊👍.Now I wish you Happy Reading and may you always Find what you Need in the pages of a Good Book 📚📖