I will start by saying - this is an incredibly talked about book pre-publication and despite me loving everything the synopsis detailed, I was a tad worried that, like other massively hyped novels, that it would be a let down - I needn't have been concerned, this book is magnificent. I have certainly noticed that it has polarised opinion quite a bit but I can't understand why as I wouldn't have changed anything about it, it was a fantastic read for January and the start of a whole new reading year. Also, a quick note of appreciation for the cover - absolutely gorgeous!I have worried a fair bit since finishing it about writing the review with my primary concern being doing the novel justice. I genuinely think this is one of those that you need to read as I don't think any review can convey the magic and enchanting nature of the story. It has managed to leave a lasting impression on me as I haven't stopped thinking about it since wrapping it up. I am still thinking about the upcoming books Albert is writing - 1) the sequel (The Hazel Wood #2) and 2) a companion book filled with the Fairytales of the Hinterland. Both of these I am going stir crazy for already! They seem like an eternity away. I'm now desperately searching for similar books to keep me entertained until these have been offered as ARC's or published.I am also pleased to hear that the film rights have been purchased, I would definitely pay to see it once it has been completed. I am guessing that'll be quite a few years away yet though. I am happy that I have read the book before the watching the movie as it can sometimes create a very different experience the other way around.Synopsis - Seventeen-year-old Alice and her mother have spent most of Alice’s life on the road, always a step ahead of the uncanny bad luck biting at their heels. But when Alice’s grandmother, the reclusive author of a cult-classic book of pitch-dark fairy tales, dies alone on her estate, the Hazel Wood, Alice learns how bad her luck can really get: her mother is stolen away―by a figure who claims to come from the Hinterland, the cruel supernatural world where her grandmother's stories are set. Alice's only lead is the message her mother left behind: “Stay away from the Hazel Wood.”Alice has long steered clear of her grandmother’s cultish fans. But now she has no choice but to ally with classmate Ellery Finch, a Hinterland superfan who may have his own reasons for wanting to help her. To retrieve her mother, Alice must venture first to the Hazel Wood, then into the world where her grandmother's tales began―and where she might find out how her own story went so wrong. Setting - The plot takes place in two very different world's - New York City is where Alice and Ella are living when Ella goes missing. On a mission to rescue her Alice and Finch try to discover a way into the deceptive world of the Hazel Wood. Most of the first half of the book is set in NYC and is where Albert masterfully introduces and fleshes out the characters. Finch, who is a Tales of the Hinterland super fan, starts seeing characters from the Hinterland in and around NY so the worlds overlap slightly. The second half is mainly based in The Hazel Wood with Finch and Alice searching for Ella but she returns to NYC at the end of the book.Main Characters - Alice is a steely-minded and tenacious girl who seems to have issues with her anger at many points during the novel. I admired her the most for the love she had for her mother, Ella - she stopped at nothing to try and reach and rescue her despite feeling scared. I feel I would react in the same way if my mum went missing or was taken. Ella is Alice's "mother" and her and Alice have an amazing bond between them. This bond is a main focus of the book as it endures even when Ella disappears propelling Alice into a shadowy world. Finch is a boy from Alice's school who has been a big admirer of Tales of the Hinterland and of the mysterious Althea. Then there are Alice and Finch's families plus a few other peripheral figures both in the real world and the Hazel Wood. Such unique characters that I am still thinking about weeks and weeks after finishing I know this won't be a read that I soon forget.Prose/Writing - Albert's writing is magical and engaging from the very beginning - it took no time at all to get into the story and be invested in its journey and outcome. Lush, lyrical and well structured with a flow that makes it difficult to put down, a beautiful piece of creativity. One thing I was told to expect was a change in the writing style after the 50% mark and I know that a few people have mentioned the change in their comments with me or in reviews. Whilst I do agree that there is a change and the prose is noticeably less descriptive I didn't experience a reduction in my enjoyment due to that. The first half and second half do feel different and distinct due to this aspect but I thought it was a brave move to change it up a little. I guess people will make up their own minds but I must stress that the change does not mean that the quality of the story and all the other nuts and bolts suffer, in my opinion.One thing that strikes me about the book is the vivid imagination it would have taken to dream up and put together. The genre and story couldn't have been more perfect for me - a fairytale that is dark and disturbing in nature you say? Hell, yeah! A delicious recipe of YA with added Mystery - the two genres I adore!It's going to be a hard road awaiting the upcoming books but it could have been worse had this been a standalone only, I would have been pretty sad had that of been the case as it was a pleasure to read and I only hope that a talent like Albert pens many, many more books similar in genre once this series has come to a close.If you are a fan of darker fairytales (Grimm), YA and Mystery genres I wouldn't hesitate to reach for this one. I've purchased a copy for my bookshelf as I know I'll read it again before the new ones appear just to refresh. Well executed and simply mesmeric this is a novel that will knock your socks off!Albert's got IT! In spades.I would like to thank Penguin Random House Children's, Melissa Albert and NetGalley for providing me with a complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review.