The way I don't know how to write this review... I haven't written a 2-star review in sO long (not since Shatter Me, which btw I read two years ago). Also, I was going to rate this 3-stars but I realized how unfair that would be to the books I've read and rated 3 stars out of 5. So, what was this book's crime?It's boring. BOOO-RING.Book had me like:And the thing is, the plot isn't even tremendously horrible or anything. It's obviously unoriginal, but so is a lot of the YA fantasy genre, and I still enjoy tropey fantasy sometimes. This 338 page (WHAT???? HOW) book just felt like it was a thick ass 800 paged book to me. The romance: didn't care. Plot: didn't care. Characters: didn't care. It's not that they were unlikeable or I hated them, I just wasn't invested at all in Eldas (btw his name sounds like it belongs to a grandpa) and Luella, or their relationship. For all the people I see who loathe love triangles, ohmygosh I'd take one over a bland romance aNY DAY. One of them could've died at the end and I still wouldn't find it in me to care. You know what, that would've caught me off guard a little though because this book was also predictable as hell. I'm a simple girl, even a book being predictable isn't repulsive to me. As long as I enjoy it. But the combination of dull + predictable (very much present in this book) was just too much for me to handle lol. Because this book was in Luella's POV, let me sum up her inner dialogue for you: " I have duties back home of healing people how will they ever live without me ⇨ Eldas is kind and not grumpy omg ⇨ oh Midscape isn't bad ⇨ But I have duties of healing people back home! ⇨ I want him to slam me against a wall (doesn't even do anything about it and they stay a bland ass couple ⇨ nO I have duties back home ⇨ This place isn't bad tho ⇨ but i HAVE healing duties back home! "Like omfg sis I promise they will live fine without you (spoiler alert: they did) sorry the town didn't revolve around your existence.Basically this review is literally just me saying: if anyone's still here one of the stars is for the cover tbh 😳