15-9-2021: saw the movie tonight and loved it’s esthetics and how it conveys the gravitas of the storyLike medieval (but the Islamic enlightenment version of it) times, a caste system and the oil industry imposed upon space opera, with mystical elements permeating the whole and simultaneously telling the rise of a Napoleon like hero. Dune sounds like a book that shouldn’t work, but does, in an unique, complex and compelling manner.The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him.Start of the legendI must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain.The last 25% of the book was a wild ride that really upped my enjoyment of this reread, and left me impressed with the worldbuilding and boldness of Frank Herbert.But to start: Dune is a classic in the scifi field, but is quite atypical. Technological progress has stalled after a jihad against thinking machines (aka computers) and a kind of medieval society in space has emerged. An emperor reigns, planets are dished out as fiefs and mysterious sects (We Bene Gesserit sift people to find the humans.) follow their own paths to influence events. Some kind of social darwinism is at play, and the conviction that humanity can be massively better (or worse) is we return our attention to oneself instead of towards technology.The terms are at the start quite hard to get into, even though I know the story and remember some of them from last time reading the book. Arrakis, the Dune from the title, is an other interesting thing. This desert planet is almost a separate character (The highest function of ecology is understanding consequences), being handed to the Atreides duke and worsening a blood feud with the Harkonnens, the previous owners of the planet.It is interesting how Herbert decided to reveal the first murder plot perpetrator quite soon, showing evidently that this is a book more about ideas then tension.In general the book is biblical in language and the weight assigned to events, with foreshadowing and myths. The world feels rich and alive.The main character is Paul Atreides, the son of duke Leto. He is groomed to take on his role of leader of a major house, and by his Bene Gesserit mother Jessica (who is, for lack of a better analogy, a kind of crossing between a martial arts expert, nun and witch). There are several other retainers, who are depicted in a manner that I can only compare to The Lord of the Rings.The characters in general feel greater than life, for instance the level of perception and deduction at the dinner party is superhuman, I can only imagine because there is no advanced technology that the psychic training must somehow become more advanced and leads to the kind of casual analysis Jessica and Paul are capable of.The fall of house Atreides is still a brutal event, even if you know it is coming and feels swift and unexpected, as does Paul’s enlightenment.Predetermination versus free willA kind of Heisenberg indeterminacy intervened: the expenditure of energy that revealed what he saw, changed what he saw.To be fair, halfway in the book I felt a kind of lull in reading. The main characters are thrown back upon themselves and need to establish themself amongst the Freemen, Bedouin like desert folk who are much more powerful than thought.In these sections there is such a sensitivity to culture and worldbuilding, Tatooine or the Aiel of Robert Jordan are nothing compared to the depth Herbert manages to bring go Arrakis and its Freemen. So much must have been thought of but has been left out, given a richness in the world conjured that is only rivaled by Middle Earth.The scenes are intense, and well written, but in way a bit dull since the ascent of Paul to power seems assured. There is banter that is really sharp, like:“Do you trust me?”“I hear your sincerity.”And Paul is shown as doubting, self aware of his rise and what it entails, commenting on heroism and mythmaking, and the restraints to his powers: (The vision made him want to freeze into immobility, but this, too, was action with its consequences.)But the third part, especially to the end, shows real boldness by skipping two years and taking on tragic events (Grief is the price of victory), sometimes only in an indirect manner.Alia is a good example, and all the implications and struggles, guilt, she must bring with her. You feel it, it is touched upon, but never in an on the nose manner.And the development of the relationship between Stilgar and Paul also carries sadness and an awareness of the corrosive power of adoration and myth: I have seen a friend become a worshipper.The epicness of both the story and main character Paul (and a shoutout to Chani and Jessica as well) is just beyond anything. For instance somewhere near the end Paul responds the following to a warning that the galactic emperor is coming down upon him in force:"When the Emperor learns that he’ll not rest until he has you over a slow fire.""The Emperor’s not likely to have that power over me."Decadence as an indication of ineffectiveness and decline, while orthodoxy, returning to the core of human struggle for life, is a way out of the impasse, comes back as a theme.The actual enlightenment and power of Paul as gained by the spice is unknowable to a reader, since he operates on another level entirely. Time being a dimension, Paul transcends the three dimensions and becomes something inhuman along the way, a singularity like the technical singularity.Some minor criticism "How could you do such a foolish thing?" she demanded."He is your son"Oké, what is this convenient weirding suddenly along the way?Why is count Fenring there, what does he add in anyway to the story?And how the hell does Paul get nuclear weapons all of the sudden.And as said: the second part of the book really did not speak that much to me.But in no way it can be denied that the world conjured by Dune is rich, bold and interesting, and that I very much look forward to see the movie in 2021!Bad ass quotes:She said that the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience....and the mystery of life is not a problem to solve but a reality to experience.The concept of progress acts as a protective mechanism to shield us from the terrors of the future.But the test of a man isn’t what you think he’ll do. It’s what he actually does.The people who can destroy a thing, they control it.The power to destroy a thing is the absolute control over it.