This review covers the entire line of the Fury books. I can't honestly believe I made it through all of them. It must be some sort of perverse thought that they would end better. Butcher is in love with these characters. All of them. Even some of the minor ones. No matter how hard he kills them, they always seem to come back. It seemed that every third or fourth chapter ended with a "cliffhanger" of someone dead or almost dead just to have them resurrected in the next scene. I thought, "Well, it's the last book. Surely he'll kill someone in this one." Nope. He just couldn't manage it. Even toward the end when it seemed someone finally did manage to get killed, he couldn't help but bring them back. I literally exclaim, "Oh, COME ON!" when I read that part.Now, I have to say that the story, as a whole, is a good one. I love the setting, the handling of magic (even if some of the powers seem a bit random), and the characters are well fleshed out and interesting. The plot is clear and concise and, as a whole, interesting. But you can't have characters get in the kind of trouble these people were getting in and not have a fatality. In his defense, Mr. Butcher usually foreshadowed his "outs" well. You would skim over them not knowing what exactly they meant until you got to the point where they were used and you'd think, "Okay, that's why they were all wearing backpacks" or whatever. But still, that is no excuse. No on who takes as many risky chances could survive for long. Plus, it isn't fair to the reader. It quickly becomes clear that any danger the characters encounter aren't really dangerous to them. To the people around them? Sure. But the reader knows that all the main characters will be fine. I rated the first book four stars, this one two, and the rest three. Really, the writing is fine and probably deserves about a four but my frustration with the lack of danger in the world and the plot devices to keep the characters alive had me slamming my head against the wall by the final book. If you are fantasy lover (or liker), this is a decent series. Just be prepared to be frustrated by the end.