As an avid fantasy reader, I try to "broaden" my horizons and read old-school fantasy (which is pre-90s for me). Sure, I rarely end up loving it but it gives me an insight into this genre and allows me to see their influences on my favorite fantasy authors and books. This book is largely accredited as a major influence on the grimdark genre and many authors claim to be influenced by Gemmel. It's also on the 1001 list books to read before you die (after reading this book, I seriously think they need to redo that list). What I'm trying to say is that reading this book was a perfectly rational and reasonable choice. I was looking forward to it when it was picked as the monthly read in my book club and I couldn't believe how boring it is until I started it myself.Let's start with the characters:- there's one of the worst cases of insta-love I have yet to come across in writing- Druss was the most interesting character by far, most of the rest just blended in and I barely kept track of who's whom because of my lack of investment in the story.- Standards for fantasy are way higher so I don't ask for memorable secondary characters but at least distinguishable? The plot:My God. The boredom. The struggle I went through to finish this book. If it wasn't a monthly read, I would've DNF' it, no doubt. I was trying my best to be positive about this book and keep in mind that this was written in the 80s when the fantasy genre was still new in a way. Yet, I couldn’t enjoy it. There wasn't much happening and unsurprisingly, it was a linear plot with an expected ending. I didn't mind that but I hoped for something more engaging/entertaining. Yet the pace was slow and I kept checking how many pages I have left. Repeatedly. Aside from a few interesting events, I couldn't bring myself to care about what's happening.The writing:It certainly didn't help especially since chapters only got longer. It didn't make the book gripping, the opposite if anything, tedious to read. But again, I won't judge on that point since this book is pretty old by this genre's standards and I don't like old writing so it's not the book's fault (the boredom totally is though).Nonetheless, I was willing to give it 3 stars if it wasn’t for the ending that ruined the redeemable thing that happened in the book. There’s a trope I can’t stand in books that happens at the end (and frankly, I should've seen it coming because this book is old school and this was expected back then) and I was just done at the point (luckily the book was done too, a few pages later).I don't understand why authors kill characters if they intend to bring them back Overall, I don’t regret reading it but I really thought this was going to be an easy/fast read at the very least yet I had to push myself to read it. My friends had at least a smoother time reading it even if most of us didn't like it. Legend was certainly not memorable too. But hey, at least I read a big title back in the day :)And oh, the only reason I didn't rate it one star is because I know it was good back then but sadly it didn't age well, in my opinion.