This was a masterclass in pulpy, old-school fantasy with all that entails both good and bad. The characters were fairly 1 dimensional, the world-building wasn't particularly unique or inventive and the plot was fairly straight-forward. For most books these would be criticisms and yet for this one it's almost praise: Gemmell seems entirely happy with this formula and he executes it very well. The skillful execution of these reliable tropes combined with the addition of some other nice features made for a really enjoyable read.The first 2/3 of the book were pretty well paced, characters and story elements were introduced and developed and the scene was set for the epic siege to come. The Last 1/3 or so, the duration of the siege, was where the story became really compelling. The pace picked up notably, the battle scenes provided a level of intensity that hadn't been seen before and the philosophical elements were interesting and implemented in such a way that they didn't distract from the plot (a la the bloated and repetitive philosophical monologues in the Malazan books) with most of the philosophizing coming in the brief lulls between bloody, violent clashes as the combatants try to make sense of the slaughter. Druss makes for an enjoyable main character. A revered old warrior who has come out of retirement for one last fight. His struggles to live up his legend even as his body failed him made for poignant reading (all the more so as Gemmell apparently had the initial idea for this while dwelling on his own mortality as he awaited the results of a cancer exam) that reminded me somewhat of Clint Eastwood's great role in Unforgiven. Rek was also a likeable protagonist: his struggles to control his berserker rages and his often comedic dialogue were all interesting features of his story. There were a cast of pretty straightforward secondary characters who all nevertheless served their roles in the story well. The standout for me was the cowardly lord of the fort. When Druss arrived a expected him to be hilarious and dramatically removed from office (with a possible pantsing/wedgie to go with it) but instead Druss gave him a second chance and his struggle to regain respect: both that of himself and of his men, was pretty inspiring.Overall this wasn't a groundbreaking or innovative read that made me look at the world differently, but as action-packed epic high fantasy it was a masterclass in the genre.