There is something unambiguously alluring about last stands; those situations in which a body of troops holds a defensive position in the face of overwhelming odds and against all hope for victory. We all know the battle of Thermopile 480 BC when a Greek force of approximately 7,000 men for seven days (including three of battle) held off the Persian army, alleged by the ancient sources to have numbered over one million. Less known, but not less impressive, is the Battle of Hodów between the Kingdom of Poland and the Crimean Khanate forces, fought in June 1694 with four hundred hussars fighting (and winning!) against forty thousand Tatars (Now, the Poles are crazy altogether as they have their own list of last stands featuring things like the Battle of Wizna in 1939 when between 350 and 720 Poles defended a fortified line for three days against more than 40,000 Germans!). Battles like these easily become legends.David Gemmel gives us the legend of Dross Delnoch, a strong keep with six walls defended by ten thousands men of whom most are untrained volunteers, about to withstand an attack of the greatest army ever assembled; a horde that within twenty years had built an empire stretching across a dozen lands and five score cities. And now as they march on Dross, the greatest fortress ever built is waiting for the largest army in the world. What a clash of giants! The ingredients for a new legend.Only things are not going great in the fortress. There are six walls and a town to defend, while the force is less than a third of the full complement, and the discipline is rotten because morale is low and fear is rife. The defenders need a miracle or the Dross will fall. And Dross Delnoch needs heroes. Badly. ”Think of the men here as a rusty weapon which needs a warrior’s firm hand. It needs to be sharpened, honed, prepared. It’s useless else.”Contrary to your expectations, the book doesn’t start in the city preparing for a siege. The book opens with a coward running away from battle, one Regank the Wanderer, ”man of uncertain character and only sporadic courage”. In fact, the actual fighting starts only halfway through the book and even though the novel is not long, there is not one word wasted. A great reminder to many contemporary writers that epic does not automatically equate with +600 pages. That you can have 350 pages filled with action to the brim.So how does Gemmel manage to achieve it? Firstly, he creates a compelling set of characters. And I would say the Legend is one of those novels that do not really have a main protagonist. Surely, invincible Druss, Captain of the Axe, wielding Snaga (meaning “the Sender”), the greatest warrior of the age, is one of the book’s main pillars but you’d be very mistaken to think that the book is about him. Others are equally important in the Legend: from Rek, a hero by necessity, to Bowman, a robber outlaw with principles, from Virae, earl’s daughter, to deadly Caessa whose love is as lethal as her arrows, from Orrin, the incompetent gan of the fortress and Hogun, the grim legion general, to rank and file soldiers whom we meet, learn their back stories and accompany in battle. There is, finally, the Temple of Thirty, warrior-priests for whom the incoming battle is the culmination of thirteen years of training. They are weapon masters who seek the perfect death to counterpoint the perfect life, whose bodies are the living weapons and minds fight as powerfully but whose spirits adhere to extreme pacifism. I am sure that all readers interested in Eastern spirituality fill find the albino Serbitar one of the most fascinating characters in fantasy.”Druss is every man who has refused to quit, to surrender when life offered no hope, to stand aside when the alternative was to die. He is a man who has shown other men there is no such thing as guaranteed defeat.”Secondly, what Gemmel shows is that there is more to battle than hacking and slashing at the incoming enemy. He builds the tension surrounding the incoming class and even before the fighting starts he shows the reader that victory is not merely the question of military might. That there is tactic and organisation to be considered; the supply lines, the orderlies, hospitals and stretcher bearers. And above all, he emphasises the role of spirit. He shows the whole dynamic of the battle so beautifully captured and symbolised in how each of the walls is named: Firstly, “Eldibar” which means “exultation”, followed by “Musif” the wall of despair and Kania, the wall of renewed hope. The fourth wall is named Sumitos, the wall of desperation, while Valteri, wall five, is the wall of “serenity” and, finally, Geddon is the wall of death. You will follow the defenders through these walls and through their own battles that each has to wage. Because there is not one battle, but many. Gemmel paints dozens of tiny pictures of deeds of individual heroism passed unseen but also shows how low a human spirit can sink during wartime with treachery, cowardice, and denial. Finally, while you will find the motif of good forces with all the odds pitched against them fighting the incoming evil in other heroic fantasy books (including those penned by Gemmel himself), I think that the Legend is more mature because it is more nuanced. The main theme is not the clash of light against the dark, good against the evil (Ulric of the Nadir is not a primitive brute but an enemy worthy of respect). The Legend invites us to ponder about the human nature, the mysteries of human soul that propel us to fight for lost causes and refuse to yield even if giving up seems to be the most reasonable course of action. Even if the only thing we can offer is our meaningless and unnecessary death. Regarding my rating: I approach this book in a very similar manner to the Dragonlance Chronicles. There is a lot of nostalgia factor involved. The Legend gets the benefit of being a classic and so I ignore the things that under normal circumstances would bring the final verdict down by two stars mainly Ulric’s purple (!) eyes and the fact that what dies doesn’t stay dead.---Also in The Drenai Saga: 2. The King Beyond the Gate ★★☆☆☆3. Waylander ★★★☆☆4. Quest for Lost Heroes ★★★★☆5. In the Realm of the Wolf ★★★☆☆6. The First Chronicles of Druss the Legend ★★★★☆7. The Legend of Deathwalker ★★★★☆8. Winter Warriors ★★★☆☆9. Hero in the Shadows ★★★★★10. White Wolf RTC11. The Swords of Night and Day RTC