Uh-oh, I think my boyfriend Geralt is on strike. I mean, why else would the Most Deliciously Scrumptious Witcher Ever aka the Super Hot if Slightly Mutant Monster Slayer (MDSWEakatSHiSMMS™) butcher such a ridiculously low amount of supernatural beasts in this volume? Well, I guess it is also possible that his evil boring twin took over while I was, um, otherwise engaged with some of my other harem, um, boarders and stuff. Or maybe he was abducted by aliens, submitted to vigorous brain reprogramming sessions, and then shipped back to us via Expedited Shrimp Express (ESE™)? Who the fish knows? In any case, there is way too little delicious slaughter here and way too much pondering on the meaning of life, destiny, blah blah blah and all that crap. Not to mention the inordinate amount of Suicide-Inducing Lovey Dovey Crap (SILDC™) one has to bravely endure while reading this book. Indeed.Okay, so there's some really good, err, what's the word for this? Oh, yes, I remember now, "stuff" is the technical term I'm looking for. So yes, there is definitely some good stuff here: a little bit of intrigue, a pinch of adventure, a dash of Let's Gleefully Hack at Things (LGHaT™), a speck of humor, a drop of shenanigans and a soupçon of my homicidally sexy boyfriend. Alas, unfortunately and stuff, sufficient to make this short story collection as yummilicious as The Last Wish this wasn't. Most of the stories begin stupendously enough, I'll give you that, my Little Barnacles. One opens with a basilisk, free warrior women and crayfish. Which got me all excite because coming across my freshwater cousins in books always makes my exoskeleton tingle and stuff. Another story begins with tentacles, serrated claws and mountains of exploding trash. Which brought back fond memories of my past life as Marjory the Trash Heap. Ah, good times.Then there is the story that kicks off with a delightfully capricious mermaid and later introduces super, um, friendly sea creatures. And then the story that starts with most, um, welcoming monsters. And severed limbs. Oh, and let's not forget the one with the dryads! So, you see, all the stories in this collection begin quite gloriously indeed. The problem is, most of them then proceed to deflate like the proverbial (if bloody shrimping) soufflé. Because too many pointless ramblings and endless dialogues, not enough blood-shedding. Because too much allergy-inducing relationship drama, not enough action. And don't get me started on Yennefer. Actually, no, please DO get me started on her. To think I locked her up in my harem kindly offered her asylum after reading The Last Wish! She was cool! She was cunning! She was badass! She was hot! She was mine! But now? It's pretty obvious the aliens kidnapped and then brainwashed her like they did Geralt. Why else would she act like such an exasperatingly selfish—or is it selfishly exasperating? I forget—bitch? And the angst! Bloody stinking fish, the angst! There's enough of it here to feed a battalion of Thoroughly Frustrated New Adult Fangirls (TFNAF™)! Yeah, more or less.But hey, it's not ALL bad. Just so you know, I deny ever writing what you are about to read. It only exists in your alcohol-drenched little head. You shouldn't drink and read, you know. It's not the most sensible behavior, you know. Follow my example! Drink chamomile tea at all times!That detector of yours is obviously broken, Young Man of the Silly Costume. I mean, there's a super cute kid in two of the stories. Her name is Ciri. She made my black, withered heart do all kind of weird things. First of all, it started beating, which was kind of, you know, spooky and stuff. Then it kinda sorta felt like it was getting slightly squished and stuff. Strange, err, what was that technical term again? Oh yes, stuff. Strange stuff. Indeed. Disgusting, too. You have to admit that feeling so revoltingly emotional and human isn't really in my line of work. I find the idea both terribly repulsive and horribly inadequate, to be honest. So I very logically kidnapped Ciri. For her own good, obviously. Also, she'll make great blackmail material. I won't release her until my Geralt returns to his former MDSWEakatSHiSMMS™ self. Muahahahaha and stuff.This is the end of the paragraph you thought you read but didn't because you're drunk and because I never wrote it. You're welcome. ➽ And the moral of this The Evil Russians™ Quite Evidently Replaced my Geralt with a Sappy Doppelgänger That's It I'm Unleashing the Shrimps on the Kremlin and Getting the Real Him Back to the Harem and Stuff Crappy Non Review (TERQERmGwaSDTIIUtSonKaGtRHBttHaSCNR™) is: my pet Algernon misses his monster friends, Mr Sapkowski. Please bring them back, even if it's just to have them slightly slaughtered by my Geralt. Algernon feels awfully lost without them, you see. I mean, look at the poor thing! Doesn't he look utterly helpless and completely befuddled to you? So please do the charitable thing, Mr Sapkowski. Bring my mutant beast slayer back and Make Algernon Gleeful Again (MAGA™)! · Book 1: The Last Wish ★★★★★· Book 3: Blood of Elves ★★★· Book 4: The Time of Contempt ★★[Pre-review nonsense]Geralt, dear boy, we need to talk. I locked you up in my High Security Harem because you were a super hot monster slayer, not for your disgusting love sick puppy tendencies. So you stop this revolting display of vile maudlin sentimentality right this minute, or I'm sending you to the DNF Graveyard until you become yourself again, you hear me?!What? You didn't know Geralt looked like a toast with tiny arms? You really are clueless, aren't you, my Little Barnacles?➽ Full Who The Bloody Fish Are You and What Have You Done with My Sexey Badass Mutant Boyfriend Crappy Non Review (WTBFAYaWHYDwMSBMBCNR™) to come.