I wanted to read this book from the second I heard about it, because several bloggers I respected kept raving about how wonderful it was. It seemed like it would be a nice change--a medieval fantasy in which the pseudo-Middle-Eastern setting was the main focus of the story, not just an exotic sidetrack.I think that was the problem: in this case, the setting was the main focus of the story--to the point where the characters and plot were used to show off the setting, rather than vice versa. Dhamsawaat seems like a very nice city, and it was nice to see all the different people who lived there--but for me the scenery and minor characters were as interesting as the protagonists, which was a problem.PLOT SPOILERS BELOWThe concept is pretty cool. The main protagonist (there are five or six, depending on how you count) is an aging ghul-hunter named Adoulla Makhslood, who's getting too old for this crap. He and his assistant--a fanatical 17-year-old dervish named Raseed--are asked by Adoulla's old flame (a middle-aged brothel owner named Miri) to investigate the horrific murders of her niece and nephew-in-law. Turns out they've been murdered by something horrible--an Ancient Evil connected somehow to some unusually powerful ghuls that attack Adoulla and Raseed in the desert. Fortunately they are saved by a desert-dwelling shapeshifter named Zamia, who reveals that the Ancient Evil also slaughtered her entire tribe. The three return to town, and that night the Ancient Evil destroys Adoulla's beloved townhouse and nearly kills Zamia. The three must go for help to Adoulla's old friends, an "alkhemist" named Litaz and her magic-wielding husband, Dawoud. With Miri's help, this larger team determines the source of the threat, and must join forces with a flamboyant and charismatic bandit king called The Falcon Prince to save the city from destruction.Sounds cool, right? And most of this isn't on the jacket copy. (In fact, as I look at the jacket copy now I think it's a little deceptive.) The problem is that the descriptions I've just given are the characters. I mean, I could tell you that Adoulla's fat (it's mentioned far more often than his ghul-hunting is), or that Raseed's a really good fighter, but you don't really get a whole lot more development than that. Raseed is the only one to experience real personal growth, and it's along fairly predictable lines. There was one scene at the end of the book that really intrigued me--when Adoulla decides to keep quiet about The Falcon Prince drinking the Heir's blood--but that was one of the few surprises in the book for me. Most of the characters' other interactions were fairly mechanical.The book was less than 300 pages long, with a blank page before every chapter. I'm not sure what the wordcount is, but I would guess it was in the 70-80k range--right on target for a YA novel, but a little thin for one aimed at adults. This would not have been an issue were the plot itself a little richer, but as it was I would have liked earlier mentions of the villain, an earlier introduction for Litaz and Dawoud, more interactions with The Falcon Prince, more evidence of the Khalif's cruelty... Since my main gripe with the book is its underdevelopment, I think I would have enjoyed it more with a few more threads in the tapestry.The prose style was my last big issue. Ahmed chose to translate literally a lot of (what I assume are) traditional Arabic expressions: Litaz, for example, is properly called "Litaz Daughter-of-Likami," whereas Raseed is "Raseed-only-Raseed." This was interesting the first time, but intrusive after that... I was just about to say that I would have preferred he use the proper Arabic word, but apparently the Arabic word for "daughter of" is bint, which doesn't really fly in English. Still, characters are constantly "exchanging cheek-kisses" and "giving God's peace," and these things don't really need description or explanation after the first time, either. And once you take out these superficial cultural markers, the story's really a fairly standard medieval fantasy. There is the difference that everyone's (generically) Muslim--and there's a lot more religion in this book than there is in the average fantasy novel, although it's so integrated with the tapestry of life that it doesn't come off as either critical or preachy. And when you take that away, you're left with a lot of traditional high-fantasy ingredients: a prologue with someone being tortured in a dungeon; a team of plucky heroes with various strengths and backgrounds; corrupt city guardsmen; stoic desert tribespeople; an Ancient Evil; shambling undead; an evil king and his sheltered, good-hearted young son; and a lot of starving commoners. To me, the most interesting parts of the story were the hints we got of what came before it--the adventures Adoulla and his friends had when they were younger, how Litaz left her family, how she and Dawoud got together, how they lost their son. I think I might have enjoyed that book more.Anyway, I know a lot of people really liked this one, and I feel kind of bad for tearing it apart, but... I don't know. I guess I had really high expectations, and I always get annoyed when a book I'm looking forward to is disappointing. If you're interested in this one, you may well feel a totally different way about it than I did.