I found numerous things to like in this debut fantasy epic, and few to complain about, making it one of my top debuts of 2012, even if I only got to it in 2013. On the plus side:- the setting: rich and original, vibrant and convincing. The source material is easily identified, from the Arabian Nights and numerous other myths and legends of the muslim culture. I have read a few other recent epics that drink from the same fountain (Dreamblood by N K Jemisin; The Demon Cycle by Peter V Brett; Psalms of Isaak by Ken Scholes) , but Saladin Ahmed strikes me as the most authentic voice, the view of the insider who gets the deep spirituality of the culture and sees beyond the murderous fanatic stereotype. There is actually one character that could be described as a religious zealot (Raseed), but most of his development will be about overcoming his limitations.- the magic system : the story relies heavily on the supernatural and on different branches of arcane study: alchemy, shamanism (animal spirits), demonic incantations balanced by the power of the Scripture, potions, explosive powders, enchanted blades. I particularly liked the revamped zombies in the story: not the shuffling, ragged, Braiiinz! obsessed Hollywood staple, but fast and deadly constructs of sand, water, blood, skin or bones of the dead, each with special powers and vulnerabilities.- the characters : A fine tuned balance between the world weary older crusaders against the forces of darkness and the youthfull energy and passion of their apprentices. Doctor Adoulla Makhslood is the last authentic Ghul hunter in the great metropolis of Dhamsawaat (think Baghdad at the time of Haroun Al-Rashid), now an overweight elderly gentleman fond of sticky sweets and long conversations over a cup of cardammom tea. I have a clear picture of him in my mind:His two best friends, a couple of alchemists / healers, are similarly interested in retirement to greener pastures, but they stay on for a last fight, the most dangerous of their whole career. Raseed and Zamia are the two youths with more guts than brains, but they are both good kids and real useful in a tight spot. The possibility of romance (both the spring and the october flavor) adds a touch of spice (humor, tenderness, misunderstandings) to the proceedings.- the prose : impressive for a debut novel: good dialogue, very fast action sequences, tight descriptions, emotional intensity.Things I believe could have been handled better:- The Falcon Prince: he is an interesting charcter, but I felt he was underdeveloped, he needed at least a couple of more chapters of backstory. Likewise for the Khaliff and his court - The main adversary: remains a mystery for most of the novel, and this is a should be ( the unknown is often more terryfying than what could be clearly observed) , but ultimately I felt I knew more about his sidekick than about the evil mastermind that threatens the whole human race. Speaking of which, I'm getting a little tired of this plot device, and starting to prefer a more limited capacity for destruction.- the naming conventions : either you create whole new words or you stick to the accepted spelling of familiar ones. Changing just one letter in a name or a noun feels like lazy worldbuilding for me: ghuls instead of ghouls, Adullah instead of Abdoullah, and so on.Overall, Throne of the Crescent Moon was a fast paced adventure with well drawn characters and a very interesting setting. The novel works very well as a standalone, but I hope the author will return to the city of Dhamsawaat or to the neighborings kingdoms with a future installment.