Good news to the die-hard Mistborn fans like me and also The Stormlight Archive lovers (Seriously, I should stop procrastinating and start reading ASAP! It waits too long at my TBR purgatory!), we got the brand new, unique, exciting sci-fi series we’d dreamt of for so long. I honestly waited for second book’s release to start this journey and it finally came out. The book started a little slow and it gave me idea that was long prologue before taking our first steps into journey and warms us before the real action starts. We’re introduced the characters and main purpose, the obstacles, enemies, facts and after this long introduction we’re all set to buckle up and move to the space, travelling around the stars and learn more what’s gonna happen. So before reading this book, you may consider this one as a long intro to main story but it is really good written with its perfectly rounded characters and world building. It may be long but don’t give up because especially the cliffhanger shakes you to the core and thrills you so much, makes you want to get the second book into your hands ASAP!Let’s get a quick look to the story progression:Our heroine Spensa Nightshade’s father died a few years ago at the war against the alien race named Krell. Now she wants to be a pilot to honor her father’s memory and defend her planet by fighting against the Krell and avenge her father’s death. But later we learn her father made an unforgiveable mistake and now rest of the colony are so adamant not to forget it. He was accused of being a coward! His wrong move labeled and ruined his own daughter life and after 9 years passed from his demise, Spensa still suffers from his wrong choice’s consequences.But Spensa is fiery, stubborn, powerful, rebellious soul and she is so determined to be trained as a starship pilot and prove her competence. But it’s not gonna be more compelling challenging for her to be accepted to the Defiant Defense Force’s flight school because so many influential and powerful people are against to give her chance get her approval.But with the help of her determination, working her ass off and a little bit luck, she finally finds an empty spot for her to join the program. But her problem doesn’t end so easily. She turns into persona non grata, gets rejected to use the dorms, even the school cafeteria is forbidden zone. She finds herself at a house in cave to stay and she meets with an old, decapitated starfighter named “M-Bot”So as she resumes attending her classes so she also tries to fix this old starfighter. But before without completing her training, she and her classmates find themselves fight against the Krell.Overall, two things really affected me so much about this book. One: I LOVE M-BOT so so so much! I wish I had it in my house and start a starship book club with it!I’m absolutely sure it stole all the show! And the second is (my mouth is till zipped) I’m devastated, so sorry about one of the character’s fortune at this book. (the readers know who I’m talking about and I found it not fair! I even thought to cut one star from my rating but my love for M-Bot and my adoration for the story stopped me.)Brandon Sanderson is uniquely gifted author with his intelligent, visionary brain, he creates remarkable novels. I’m delightfully to read anything his hand touched and worked on.So I cannot wait to start the series’ second book! It’s so much worth to wait for!