THE REVIEW IS POSTED 3,7 STARSI was a warrior, as Gran-Gran had taught me. And the warrior's way was not to run from failure, but to own up to it and do better.My Opinion Time!The first time I saw this book, I was captivated by the cover. It was so amazing and it looked eerie and mysterious. After that I also was curious about the book itself because the plot sounded good and something that I would probably love and it's science fiction! one of my favorite genres and I also heard many great things about it, more reasons for me to read the book! This book was pretty good and it was also funny and action-packed. I love it so much when books manage to make me laugh and I laughed several times while reading this book, a good sign indeed. But I couldn't give it a solid 4 stars or more because while I liked the book, I didn't enjoy it immensely. Like the book could be tedious sometimes. I knew I was bored sometimes, but I kept reading it because the plot of the book was pretty fascinating, even though it could be tedious sometimes but that was not a hindrance for me to keep reading it. To be honest, I initially thought that I wouldn't continue with the series, but I changed my mind and I definitely will read the sequels! even though I didn't love this book, it was still a fun read. The PlotThe plot was fascinating and I liked it. It was unique and the technology in the book was also cool as well. This book reminded me why I love science fiction very much. But while the plot was fascinating, I also found a problem about it. The pacing of the book was slow and while I didn't complain about it, it could be pretty boring. Things did happen, but still I still found myself quite bored by the book but the plot got better! thankfully. And I my curiosity increased and my heart pounded fast and I felt like I couldn't read it fast enough. The book was action-packed and it was also funny! I laughed and grinned and rolled my eyes several times. I'm so glad I didn't stop reading the book when I was confused in the beginning because the more I read it, the more I understood the story and the technology. I indeed had a pretty good time reading the book. The CharactersOH MY GOD. I RELLY LOVE DOOMSLUG. She's so cute and Doomslug is a cute creature. She imitated voices and she's just so cute. Every time she spoke I was like " awwwww " damn, I really liked this creature. I should've talked about Spensa or the other characters first but I talked about Doomslug first, so that definitely said something. And M-Bot! he's also funny and weird. Most of the time, he was the reason I laughed. He's just so unique. And about Spensa, honestly I'm so conflicted every time I think about her. She was incredibly brave, determined and a fierce character. I adored her and I also loved how ambitious and determined she was but there were also times that I just disagreed with the way she way she thought and acted. She could be rude sometimes, but that made her more realistic, I guess. But still, there were times that I just didn't agree with her. The friendship in this book was also sweet and heartwarming! I have friends in my real life and I also like them but the friendship in this book was like the other level of the friendship I have in my life. The friendship was heartwarming and strong and I really loved getting to know Spensa's friends! Spensa's really lucky to have them, I wish I had friends like them. Overall, I liked the book and I had a pretty good time reading it. The book was worth to read.Thank you very much for reading and liking this review! I appreciate it so much and I hope you all have an amazing day. ❤ •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I AM SO EXCITED TO READ THIS BOOK. Science fiction is one of my favorite genres and I've heard great things about this book and I honestly can't wait to meet M-bot and the synopsis also sounds soooo good. Please I'm begging you book do not disappoint me. Have you read this book? What did you think of it? (No spoiler please. ☺️)