❝I hereby swear my loyalty to the tsar,And promise to abide by the rules of the Game,A duel of enchantment, until a winner is declared.To this and all traditions here before established, I commit myselfAs an enchanter in the Crown's Game.❞Rating: {★ ★ ★ ½}Sadly, I wasn't too blown away with The Crown's Game. This book was one of my anticipated releases of May and I even met Evelyn Skye at YallWest! You could not imagine how disappointed I was to have to rate The Crown's Game only three stars. I was expecting it to be like the Grisha trilogy but instead, it reminded me of The Night Circus by Erin Morgenstern a tad bit TOO MUCH.The Crown's Game was literally The Night Circus set in Russia. The premise and the characters were the exact same: two rival mentors who have been training their protégés since they were young to prepare them for a competition to the death by showcasing their magic and outdoing the other until eventually, only one is left standing.If this was The Night Circus, Nikolai would be Marco and Vika would be Celia. Nikolai is an orphan. Marco is an orphan. Vika is the "daughter" of Sergei (mentor). Celia is the daughter of Prospero (mentor). The hero learns about the heroine's identity even before the competition starts. A side character named Renata (unrequitedly in love with Nikolai and reads tea leaves) was the parallel character of Isobel (unrequitedly in love with Marco and reads tarot cards) from The Night Circus. Both Marco and Celia started off competing each other in the competition, but as the story progressed, they began to collaborate on their magic. Coincidentally, Nikolai and Celia also collaborated on an enchantment together. And so much more! The similarities were uncanny.I can understand one or two similarities but these two books were the same exact story. Just change the venue from Circus to Russia, change a few names and characters, tweak the plot here and there, and you have The Crown's Game.I believe this book would've been so much better if it wasn't so similar to a book that already existed. To be honest, it's hard to think of something new to write about because almost everybody has done it all, but this was just way too similar. Even if it were inspired by The Night Circus, I wished Evelyn didn't stick to the outline so closely. I feel like unless you read The Night Circus, you wouldn't recognize the resemblance but it is one of my favorite books of all time. Unfortunately, The Night Circus is an older book and not many new people to the YA community would have read it so maybe not a lot of people would notice the similarities. But I could recognize the similarities like the back of my hand.Overall, even if I didn't to compare it to The Night Circus, I found The Crown's Game to be fairly slow. Two hundred pages in and I still wasn't intrigued or blown away by anything that was happening. In fact, not much was happening at all. The book significantly became better in the last 50 pages but even then I felt like things were resolved too quickly.It was a good attempt for a debut novel. If I didn't read The Night Circus, my rating probably would've been higher. However, I had a fun time reading The Crown's Game. It was a quick, little read. Don't get me wrong, the world is magnificent, but I was just expecting something else entirely when I read the synopsis. I may not have personally liked it, but I would recommend this book to readers who love magic and magician-esque plots. I'm looking forward to picking up and reading the sequel!