1 out of 10Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work) Genre: historical fantasy, AU, YAStuff: Imperial Russia, magicFail: the story and its fillingPOV: 3rd-person, multiLove-Geometry: pissed me offQuote-Core:     “There are things more dangerous than a little magic.”  Buddy-read with Vera and Nastassja. This May was cruel to me: bad book after a bad book. I'm tired of negative reviews, but have to do it again, 'cause The Crown's Game, which I'd been waiting for months and supported here, had failed me.Russian StuffEvelyn did her (superficial) research, but it didn't help. Wanna know why? 'Cause banana skin is not a banana itself.This story includes real things from Russian history, Russian words, names, and traditions, but they aren't always correct and, what's more important, they lack flesh, power, and soul. Croissants for breakfast won't make you look French as well as a sombrero on top of your head won't allow everyone to mistake you for a Mexican. I'm not saying that we Russians are that complicated, mysterious, and unfathomable, but a few books about our history and a touristic trip aren't enough to get the gist.People in Skye's book have nothing to do with Russians, especially with Russians from the Imperial Times. The way they talk, act, love, make decisions, and simply live is wrong. Where are manners? Passion? Culture? I mean, theater, ballet, poetry? Where's Pushkin? His exile was over in the 1820s. What about bonded peasants? Renata and Ludmila don't look like people without rights.The Crown's Game is rather a patchwork quilt that is made of random facts and stereotypes.Look:— Until XX century Russia had no such a name as Victoria (Vika), 'cause it wasn't in our church calendar. There was an analog, though: Veronica (Nika). Also, all my Vika-friends cringe when they hear 'Vickochka'. There are other nicknames for Vika, such as Vickulya, Vickusha, Vickunya. 'Vikochka' sounds weird. — Once kvas had indeed been an alcoholic drink, but in the XIX century, its recipe had changed. Since then it's just a tonic and summer-time cooling thing. Evelyn could use mead or homebrew instead.— Evelyn thinks that true Russians are hiking through birch forests, playing the balalaika, and having an almost religious zeal for buckwheat kasha with mushrooms and fresh butter. Like really? — The ball scene was weird to put it nicely. Suchlike events had their order, guests couldn't start dancing without Tsar and Tsarista's (not Tsarina) arriving. Also, there was an order for dances (polonaises, then a waltz, then...) and dancers (according to the table of ranks). What I saw in The Crown's Game was a modern masquerade-party. — There was Zakrevsky. There was Zakrevskaya. And there were Zakrevskys. Why? It had to be Zakrevskiye. The devil in the details. If you want to sound authentic, go to the mat. — “Ochen kharasho, spacibo,” Vika said. (c) You either write a line as it has to be pronounced "Ochin' kharasho, spasiba" or you write it grammatically "Ochen' horosho, spasibo". And an apostrophe at the end of a mellow tone is an important thing. These tiny details can change meaning. Von is get out!, while von' is stench. There are other fails. “Dobre dehn.” (c) One can say this is an archaic form of Dobryj Den', but this form is from another epoch. “Myevo zdarovye.” (c) which had to be Moyo zdorov'e. Bolshebnoe Duplo had to be Volshebnoe Duplo. And so on. — Pavel Alexandrovich Romanov. Wrong. In the set terms, we put out surnames first. Romanov Pavel Alexandrovich. And no one would call him Pasha. He might be Pavlusha for his mother, but that's it. There are more, believe me (check this review, for example). I don't know who was consulting Skye about Russia, but Google could do it better.Now listen, I might forget about pseudo-Russia with pseudo-Russians and simply enjoy the story, but... The IdeaHello, The Night Circus! I have nothing against similar concepts, they add to new books a nostalgic mood. But The Crown's Game stole too many details from the original and thus ruined the joy. For example, A Criminal Magic is about magic duels too, but it has a unique background (as well as a slow pace with a shitty romance, so don't be excited to read it). ACM isn't a masterpiece, but it shows how to work with a borrowed material without plagiarizing it. Moreover, where The Night Circus had a beautiful atmosphere, The Crown's Game stands empty-handed. The CharactersThey are names without stories. Flat, one-dimensional, dull. I thought their promo-profiles would be only the tip of the iceberg, but after this read I learned nothing more. In short, Vika has no personality, Pavel has no spine, Nikolai has no balls. If you shuffle these words, nothing would change, 'cause they all lack personalities, spines, and balls. As to minor heroes and heroines, they were only tools. The GameWe have two enchanters and for some reason, we need only one to survive and become the Imperial Defender and Tsar's Adviser. How we would test our candidates? Maybe we'd check their education? Or ask them to do some strategy work? Or try their powers on the battlefield? No, we ask them for a show! And they would try to impress us with renovations and colorful fountains, with thunders and islands, with dancing dolls and beautiful gowns of snow. How the fuck that would help at war?Love and InstalovePavel had a glimpse of Vika from afar and fell for her. Vika had a glimpse of Nikolai standing next to him and fell for him. Nikolai had tried to be reasonable and mature but after a few chapters fell for Vika as well. Mind that I'm talking not about curiosity or sympathy or lust, nooo, they all called it 'love'. Oh, dear... There was also a desire to suck sugar from fingertips, to kiss this and that, and a lot of crazy metaphors.      "And touching Nikolai, even through her gloves and his sleeve, was like being pummeling by stampede of wild horses. No, wild unicorns. Beautiful, wild unicorns."    The Writing and LogicThe book is easy to read, but it's hard to process in places. Vika's faint from weariness lasts more than 15-30 minutes. This is a fucking coma. Arizona sleeps with a guy on her own accord and then blames him for her loss of virginity and ruined reputation. Vika learns some bad news, grieves for a while, having a date and just theeeen goes to destroy everything in Nikolai's house, as if in heat. Is she a slowpoke? Nikolai sends stone birds to attack Vika, she calls for the real ones thinking that their lives would be on Nikolai's soul. Bravo. The EndingPredictable meh.Le-Sigh-PartAnd that was one of the most anticipated releases of this year. My intuition sucks.The Crown's Game (Царское состязание): — The Crown's Game (Царское состязание) #1/2— The Crown's Fate (Царская доля)  #2/2