4 stars. The beginning was solid, amazing, totally 5 stars, and I knew I was going to love it. Then around the middle, it started petering out toward a 3 or 4 stars. I kind of just stopped being so invested and it got disappointing. The plot - I loved the plot, Miyoung’s narrative especially. The synopsis sounded cliché – girl who has to keep herself hidden, a boy who sees her, they fall in love.But. The delivery of this gumiho concept and the twists of the plot were completely unique. The yeowu guseul aspect was definitely different and really cleverly added in. It was so much fun to read, although I wish the character arcs had been a bit more defined.I was expecting this to be a light read, the kind of thing that I can skim. Nope.I got really interested in this book around the 25% mark, and from then on…it was pretty slow work, actually, but I enjoyed it. I couldn't speed through this book.“A lot can happen in two months. You can meet a girl who seems angry and secretive and learn that it's all just a front for a kind heart that's been hurt too many times. I know what it's like to need to hide your bruises behind a facade.”The writing. I wasn’t paying much attention to the writing style, mostly because it was fairly ordinary in the storytelling. There wasn’t anything in Kat Cho’s writing style that was super unique – not that that’s a bad thing, because it was still really good. It’s just that the writing wasn’t a major part of this book.The characters. The characterization was really good, really fun to read and pretty layered.Miyoung – a young gumiho (nine-tailed fox), who keeps her powers repressed and recently moved back to Seoul. She does her best to stay under the radar. She acts very cold and distant at school to avoid attracting attention, but is also secretly concerned about everyone else; as in, are they safe from monsters like her? She has low self-esteem in the sense that she believes she’s a monster. Jihoon – an easygoing, lazy, not-exactly-studious human teenage boy. He comes across Miyoung when she saves his life from a dokkaebi (goblin). He is extremely persistent and friendly and does not leave Miyoung alone, despite her coldness. He unknowingly forms a connection with her on the night that they meet. (again, cliché, but it’s executed in a unique style)Yena – a strict, cold, deadly gumiho; Miyoung’s mother. She is extremely intimidating when she needs to be, but also very good at seduction, deception, etc. she does whatever it takes to survive, screw anyone who gets in her way, and has no qualms whatsoever about killing. She is seen as the antagonist for a while, but her backstory is much more complicated.“When you're constantly treated as a pariah and labeled bad, you might begin living up to that expectation.”The romance. This was endearing to me, just because of how persistent Jihoon was. He would not leave Miyoung alone and it was adorable. I don't mean that in the creepy weird Edward-stalker "you-belong-to-me" type of persistence, I mean that Jihoon was being really nice to Miyoung and trying to be friendly even though she was trying to blow him off. He didn't make romantic advances - he was perfectly friendly and sweet.Then Miyoung tried to deny her feelings for him and it was even more adorable. I can’t say I shipped them, but I loved them together. How they both tried so hard to take the fall for the other one was just so cute.I’m not a romance person. I get so easily annoyed by clichés and tropes and the stereotypical romance writing that’s literally EVERYWHERE. But (like always) I have to admit they were cute.“Thank you.""For what?""For trying to protect me from Hana. And for lying and saying I'm your girlfriend. I know you hate lying."Jihoon faced her. "Then maybe we should make it the truth."His words scared her because she realized she wanted to say yes.”The setting. Wow, that was amazing. I love Asian-setting books because they remind me so much of home – well, part of home (in a sense). However, I’ve never been to Korea and I don’t have that much exposure to Korean culture, but I still got a sense of what Seoul is like and I got a bit of knowledge on Korean mythology.This book made me miss my “other” home in a way, because the setting was so vivid and prominent that I just loved it.To finish. I really, really liked this book. I did. I can’t say I loved it, because I didn’t feel that strong a connection with it, but I liked it a lot. I loved the characters, the plot twists, the mythology, and the themes. It did leave me unsatisfied because of the massive cliffhanger which I am completely furious about, but in a good way. I liked it. But not enough to love it.Besides, I’m a booknerd. I appreciate the torture of a good cliffhanger.