3.5 ✨The synopsis of the Wicked Fox is quite similar to some typical fantasy kdramas. There's a human, there's a creature in the form of a human. They met, fell in love, then the not-human encountered some problems involving the human. They will alsoooo prolly go through so much before the ending. The Wicked Fox is exactly like that. Ahn Jihoon is a human, Gu Miyoung is a Gumiho. They met, fell in love, there were problems, and so on and so on. I honestly thought this was going to be cliché and predictable. Fortunately, I was wrong and I was actually entertained. I liked both the main characters' dynamics, the plot was a bit confusing but still lived up to me, and lastly, the characters made an impression since they have some colors and aren't as plain as cardboards. “I prefer fictional life. Things in the outside world are too messy.”This book started strong, it piqued my interest and caught my attention. Miyoung was an interesting character and with her gumiho secrets and all, it made her mysterious. Jihoon was the laughter-is-the-best-medicine type of guy, you can't escape his witty jokes and eyes that sparkle humor. I really looked forward to their interactions and banters. Everything started to get messy when I reached the 50% and the ~1st plot twist~ of the book. All of a sudden, things were happening. It's like the author tried to pack a lot of stuff at once but in the end, it was too much and jumbly and disorganized. The mcs also went through some "character changes", which annoyed me. I understood how it added to the plot, though I really think that it was unnecessary and out of character for them. Then there comes the ending, where it was satisfactory but at the same time insufficient. There are so many unanswered things, that's why I look forward to reading the sequel.“Sometimes you need to stop thinking so hard about what you get out of life and have fun.”I had mixed and conflicting feelings about this book. so in general, I loved the first part, didn't like the middle part, but enjoyed the last part. Probably the main reason why I liked this book was that I am reading about Korean folklore/mythology and I was transported to modern-day Seoul, which set the mood and atmosphere of the book. Transportive, entertaining, and a well-written debut. 3.5 stars!