Whoop whoop! Alexandrian society welcomes you with open arms! Dark academia, magical librarians, extra talented rivalries are fighting tooth and nail to eliminate each other for securing wealth, power and prestige beyond their wildest dreams! Yes! Yes! And yes! Such a dreamy combination for satisfying my dark soul! I am all in! The plot gave me so much hope and I felt the five starred, highly appraised review was already on its way! But… I hate the sentences starting with that word because you may sense something negative will come out sooner. And actually it’s about to come out! Well, it’s so hard for me to say it: I’m just ripping the band aid off quickly: I didn’t enjoy it as much as I anticipated. Firstly it was really slow! Not slow burn, slow enough to get you outrageously impatient. Mostly there is less action has taken place. As a biggest fan of Novik Scholomence, I was expecting to connect with at least of the characters. But most of them truly irritated. I think Callum and Tristian were the less annoying ones to root for. I slowly learn to tolerate them.The using of magic and entire execution of the story have still so much potential. High competition between magicians/ medians, their extraordinary differentiated abilities, hidden libraries, the big secrets surrounded around the entire Alexandrian society were the alluring parts of the book giving you best vibes of dark academia thriller that kept me going. So I ignored my hesitations about very punchable characters and solid writing style and reached to the finish line.Well, I think I’m still intrigued to read the next book. I’m still hopeful all those will evolve and reach their better versions of themselves at the sequels. So I’m not gonna pray for the lightning strike to take their lives! I’m giving three solid stars because of alluring magic element and its intriguing execution. I was expecting to enjoy it more! I’m still rooting for the sequels! Special thanks to NetGalley and Macmillan-Tor / Forge for sharing the digital arc of one of the most anticipated books of 2022 in exchange my honest thoughts.instagramfacebooktwitter