AMAZING. BRILLIANT. SENSATIONAL.it's like getting my mind fucked, but in the BEST WAY POSSIBLE. i felt the RUSH as i was reading this. the philosophical discussions, the physics theories, the dialogue and character dynamics are well-executed. dare i say it's never been done before? hmm, yes actually. IT'S NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE. the characters are compelling and intriguing. their personalities are distinct from each other and they all have their own unique way of thinking. never did i question whose POV i was reading because they are all so different from each other. i love every character interaction because any and every combination of characters produce an interesting dynamic, which i am a sucker for. the psychology of each character, the depth of characterization.. oh boy do they have a Lot to unpack, and i am hERE for it!!i enjoyed reading this so much (even though there's "no plot") because of the fabulous writing and the impressive execution of the story. this was just stunning, exceptional, and utterly mind-blowing. i can't even begin to imagine the amount of research that went into this. physics is one subject i do not enjoy but the concepts were laid out so concisely, i'm starting to think i don't like physics because of my professors. anyway, the themes were on point. the vibes immaculate. the writing excellent. the characters amazing. the execution brilliant. i have 316 highlights and 72 bookmarked pages by the end of it, and i don't usually highlight and bookmark so that's saying something! this is easily one of my favorites books of the year. simply incredible. i love what olivie blake is doing here.to oversimplify the book, it's a diverse cast in academia and they're ALL sexy, smart, powerful, and gay! they have philosophical discussions, psycho-analyzing sessions, and sex (while questioning their morality and ethics, of course). drinks on the house! we're all having a wonderful time here, me especially. oh my god i just love this book so much!! also, the illustrations are beautiful. this book is OUTSTANDING. i love it here!