I feel like the last few weeks of my life have been consumed by the Fablehaven series. I get home from work, play with my family, and then I finally get to dedicate a short amount of time to reading. One of the greatest things about summer is that you can read fun books that don't make you think, and Fablehaven gave me the diversion I needed. As I reached the last 20 or so pages of the series, I found myself reading slower, not wanting the ride to end. It was a good ride, but like all good things, the ride must end at some point. (However, there is no rule that says you can't go on the ride more than once.)Usually, I get annoyed by happily-ever-after endings. My English major training has done that to me. The only exception I have been able to make is Harry Potter. The Harry Potter books are perfect in every way and the characters paid a steep price to get their happy ending. I didn't feel that the Fablehaven characters paid that steep of a price to get their happy ending; however, the ending didn't annoy me--it was actually quite satisfying. I find myself comparing the book to the battles that we all must face while here in mortality. The fight seems hopeless at times, but there is always a ray of hope that things will be better--eternally better. I think the most strong parallel of this is seen in the Fairy Queen giving up her realm for the good of all of mankind. That was the biggest sacrifice she could have made, and yet, she was rewarded a hundredfold in the end. She got to build up bigger and better kingdom, and this time she had her husband and her son by her side. I am a firm believer that if we are willing to sacrifice now, we will be rewarded an uncountable amount of time in the future. All we have to do is play our part, and we will experience eternal joy in the end.I really enjoyed the role Doren and Newel played in these books. And Hugo. Hugo has become one of my most favorite characters. He is kind of synonomous with Hurley from Lost. Seth no longer drives me crazy--in fact, his sense of humor had me laughing out loud many times, something that usually only happens when I am reading Harry Potter. I am glad that Warren was able to play such a big part in the books. He is probably my most favorite character. However, I am still not a huge fan of Kendra. Despite the amazing things she has done, she still seems like a little girl to me, a little girl that is too afraid to jump off the high dive. That made the whole romance with Bracken even weirder. I must admit, I didn't see that coming. But alas, romance abounds everywhere. Bracken and Kendra's romance weirded me out less than the whole Warren and Vanessa thing. But maybe that is just because I wanted Warren to myself.Now the books have come to an end, and it is time for me to start thinking about a new series to keep me occupied. However, whenever I think back on Doren and Newel's fondness for television, on Seth's and Warren's boyish fantasies, on the magical beauty of Fablehaven, I don't think I'll be able to stop the smile. Even in the world that I live in, Fablehaven can still work its magic.