This goes only for A Year and a Day in Old Theradane by Scott Lynch. I'll read some of the other stories in the near or not so near future and will add reviews.4.5 STARSScott Lynch’s novella in this anthology is not a Locke Lamora story. Everybody keeps comparing it and mope around. Bummer, eh? Actually quite not! Although I can perfectly understand why some of you would be disappointed it's not Locke(hey, he's my all time favorite rogue too!), I think the fact that the story is not connected to Locke, Jean, Sabetha, etc., does not spoil the fun, because “A Year and a Day in Old Theradane” is a blast from start to finish.Everything begins with a meeting of a gang of retired criminals for their monthly drinking party. And so, they are sitting in a bar(it's a cavern actually, made from the skeleton of a crashed dragon) and getting outrageously drunk while playing cards. The merry band consists of three girls(the gang leader Amarelle Parathis, also known as the Duchess Unseen; a second-rank mage now working as a mage-mixologist in the bar and her wife[we have a gay couple, cool!] who is kinda technologist for automatons) and a steampunk robot. Amarelle gets so drunk that after an incident caused by a fight between the crazy wizards who rule the city, she decides to go give one of them a piece of her mind. Which is not a very good idea. The others try to stop her but she's a bad ass:“I’m not some marshmallow-muscled tourist, I’m the Duchess Unseen! I stole the sound of the sunrise and the tears of a shark. I borrowed a book from the library of Hazar and didn’t return it. I crossed the Labyrinth of the Death Spiders in Moraska TWICE—”And so it starts ...I love the way the author describes the cities in his novels, and the way he not only manages to make them alien and mysterious, but also ties those alien and mysterious elements into the actual plot of the novel.Another superb thing is the colorful, fascinating characters, created by Lynch in just a few paragraphs. Here's a passage for the gang magician which I adore:"She cooked frosted walnut cakes into the shape of unicorns and cockatrices, caused fresh fruit to squeeze itself into juice glasses, and made her figs and dates give rude speeches while her customers tried to eat them and laugh at the same time."The story has a great steampunk feel to it. There are many more goodies like "werejackals, basilisks, reek-bees, Cradlerobber Wasps, rabid vorpilax" and a coach "black as death’s asshole, windowless, trimmed with engraved silver and inlaid nacre. It had no horses and no driver; each of its four wheels was a circular steel cage in which a slavering red-eyed ghoul ran on four limbs, creating a forward impetus." I just loved this!And we even got a hint of a lost romance somewhere in the story:"There was a scar on his chin and another on his jawline, each of them familiar to her fingers and lips."I really hope Scott Lynch will return to this setting for a full novel! I'm not giving it 5 stars only because I wanted more and hey, it's a novella after all. But it was a great pleasure to read it!