Damn, I think it's safe to say that Carissa Broadbent is definitely a favorite author of mine now. If you love fantasy romance then you have to give her books a try! This one is particular reminds me of the darkness and grittiness of Nevernight but a romance more like From Blood and Ash (but still very different).✅ I LOVED THE WORLD in this book because it didn't try to romanticize vampires. Vampires were depicted as true monsters with bloodlust that was very difficult to control. Well, except for Raihn, of course lol 😅 But I liked this because most of the time vampires are portrayed as sexy edge-lords in books but here they were truly monstrous and something a human should fear.✅ TRIAL/COMPETITION PLOTLINES are almost always a hit for me and this was no exception! Each of the trials was unique and made Oraya seem like such a bad ass, and I really liked how there was never "an easy way out" for her - she actually had to use her own skills to get out of each one.✅ BOTH ORAYA AND RAIHN were amazing characters with great backstories and personalities. I thought Oraya's yearning to be more like the vampires and Raihn's yearning for his lost humanity was a good juxtaposition. I especially loved all the trips to the rundown bars with piss-poor ale that they did 😂✅ THE ROMANCE WAS SOOO good! Carissa always weaves such a great slow burn where there's no hint of instalove but you're still begging for it by the time they finally get together. This wasn't overly steamy, really only one scene, but I thought it was enough for the first book in a series!✅ THE ENDING WAS crazy and amazing and I absolutely cannot wait to pick up the next book. Honestly, I have no idea where this is going because it's hard to pinpoint exactly who "the big villain" is because everyone is some shade of grey. I did call some of the reveals early in the book, but it didn't take away from my enjoyment at all.Overall, this book was amazing and I 100% recommend it if you want a new fantasy romance series that is sure to impress. If you're looking for a fantasy book that is dark and vicious, action-packed with well-rounded characters, and also has a slow-burn romance, then you should definitely pick this up![I was provided an arc of the book by the author - thank you so so much 💖💖 All thoughts and opinions are my own]