I think I just read the best fantasy romance of 2022. Why I'm absolutely obsessed with The Serpent and the Wings of Night:❥ It was FUN. It was ENTERTAINING. It gave my brain dopamine.❥ Oraya, Raihn, and the entire cast of side characters leapt off the page.❥ I quickly became emotionally invested, and that investment never wavered thereafter.❥ The taste we were given of political intrigue has me confident this will be a shining feature in book two.❥ I was HOOKED. I couldn't wait to read more (unfortunately, I still needed to work and sleep)❥ Broadbent's writing is wonderful, but that isn't to say it stands out while you read it. It's not like reading Madeline Miller *and it shouldn't be*. There's so much going on, so much to ponder, so many emotions, and the writing does exactly what it needs to: it gets out of the way so that the reader is kept in a state of complete immersion in the story. ❥ Raihn*. I frigin adore him. ** For those of you who read the book, who did you picture in your mind? Who would you fancast him with? Because I really struggled to bring a consistent picture to mind. He was a massive, beefy body (without a visible face) and a ~vibe~. Casual BDE. A note on our FMC, Oraya:I applaud Broadbent's commitment to handling Oraya's trauma and upbringing, and how it impacts literally everything she says and does. She's prey who has constantly been surrounded by predators. She has a paranoid father who drills into her how vulnerable she is *to begin with* -- and therefore, why she cannot, under any circumstances, allow anyone an opening. All vulnerability under her control is to be stamped out. It was consistent and believable and sets her up for an incredible character arc over the series. What could have made it even better, and I hope we get in book two, The Ashes & The Star-Cursed King:◆ The magic system requires a lot more defining. Who has access to magic? Is Oraya the only human or are there others? What does 'black light' look like? Is all magic gifted by the gods? ◆ Details and nuances to the world at large, as that would answer why humans just kind of shrug and say well, this is my lot in life ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ Is there nowhere else to go? How are there still humans alive? Why are the humans so defenceless? tl;dr if you're a fan of fantasy romance, stop what you're doing and go read this. You can berate me on TikTok if you feel I've led you astray ;)