“You are the most stunning thing I’ve ever seen Oraya.”I loved this book so much! This was a brilliant and exciting romantic fantasy about love, betrayal, power, and survival. The Serpent and the Wings of Night follows Oraya, the adopted human daughter of the Vampire King as she competes in an epic tournament with several trials in order to gain power for herself. Along the way, Oraya must ally with an enemy vampire, Raihn to survive and win the trials. Oraya finds herself attracted to Raihn and discovers that he may understand her better than anyone. But will she sacrifice the chance to win to be with him or kill him?"I would beg," he murmered. "For you, I would. You have fucking destroyed me, Oraya. Do you know that?"I was completed immersed in this fantastic and interesting world the author created from the first page. The world building was excellent, I loved learning about the world full of magic, vampires, humans, demons, goddesses and gods. This book had everything I wanted in fantasy romance including slow-burn, enemies-to-lovers romance, great chemistry, awesome characters, and magic. The pacing was perfect and the plot was so interesting. The characters were very complex and interesting. I fell in love with Raihn, he is very handsome, charming, resilient, strong, brave and sweet. I loved Oraya, she is fierce, stubborn, strong, sassy, resilient, and brave. I loved Oraya's character development. I also love Mische, she is bubbly, fun, outgoing, sweet, and strong. The chemistry between Oraya and Raihn was amazing and I loved their banter! The character development was excellent, I loved seeing both sides of Oraya and Raihn and watching them grow throughout the book. The writing and storytelling in this book was so good, I felt like I was experiencing every moment and emotion along with the characters. There were several betrayals and plot twists that I didn't expect. The ending was so good and exciting. I'm speechless! I can't wait to read the next book!I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy, romance, enemies-to-lovers romance, and great characters.