Original Read: January 1st - January 8th, 2016Re-read: March 1st - March 19th, 2017My original rating and thoughts still stand. This book starts out slow and confusing, even after my 2nd time reading this, it's still a bit confusing. But I love the world that Shannon has built in this series and I'm so excited to get to The Song Rising to see what else she has in store for this series.On to book 2....************************Original Review:4.5 Stars**This will probably be long and confusing and kind of spoilery. Sorry!**"September the first, 2059. Two hundred years since a storm of strange lights crossed the sky. Two hundred years since Lord Palmerston sealed his deal with the Rephaim. Two hundred years since the inquisition into clairvoyance began. And, most important, two hundred years since the establishment of Sheol 1, and the great tradition of the Bone Season."In Scion London, all clairvoyance is prohibited. Paige Mahoney, since the age of 16, has been working in the criminal underworld of Scion London. She is a part of a gang of gifted voyants who call themselves the Seven Seals, headed by the White Binder, Jaxon Hall. Her job is to break into people's minds, keeping track of ethereal activity in their area. Paige is a dreamwalker, a rare kind of clairvoyant. On the way to her father's house to spend the weekend with him, she is discovered during a security check and must fight her way out. She ends up killing an undergaurd with her power. Taking refuge at her fathers, she is found, drugged and kidnapped.She awakens in a detainment facility in Sheol 1, formerly known as Oxford. Oxford's existence was disavowed by the goverment two centuries before, supposedly quarantined after an outbreak of fire. In fact, it was closed off and handed off to the Rephaim. They are an otherworldly race from a higher dimension called Netherworld. When the corporeal world becomes overpopulated with drifting spirits, they cause deep rifts in the aether (the spirit realm) When Earth broke it's threshold, it became exposed to Netherworld, allowing the Rephaim to come...but also allowing a different, parasitic race called the Emim to enter. The Rephaim seek to control clairvoyants. In exchange for protection from the Emim, they train the clairvoyants to destroy the Emim. Sheol 1 acts as a beacon to the creatures, drawing them away from the rest of the corporeal world. This is offered as an alternative to punishment for clairvoyancy in Scion London. But the punishments are harsh for those who fail in their training or who simply don't wish to adapt to the system. The Rephaim see clairvoyants as a lesser race and those who are amaurotic (not clairvoyant) as nothing more than slaves. Certain Rephaim offer their services as keepers and pick and choose which voyants to keep for training. Paige is chosen by the blood-consort, Arcturus Mesarthim, called Warden. But she's chosen for a very specific purpose, and there's more to Warden than first meets the eye. She wants nothing more than to regain her freedom.This book was confusing! So very confusing in the beginning. It didn't help that I didn't discover the glossary at the back of the book until over 100 pages in. But after hearing from others how good it was after getting past that first bit, I stuck with it and I'm really happy that I did! I liked Paige a lot as a MC. She was strong and smart and it was easy to understand her emotions. I really like Warden! I liked discovering his motives and allegiances. This was overall a great read and I'm excited to see where the rest of this series goes!