ALL SPOILERS ARE HIDDENThis book is disgusting. My skin was crawling with revulsion while I read it.The first part - the first three chapters - were already upsetting me. It's an alternate reality England. 200 years ago, some humans started becoming clairvoyant. It's unclear whether this was triggered by something or if it was something that always existed, hidden from the sight of amaurotics (her word for non-clairvoyants). Paige is a clairvoyant, and clairvoyants are hunted, tortured and killed. Your only hope of surviving (legally) in society is to give yourself to the government, who uses you to hunt and kill other clairvoyants.Paige is a 'criminal clairvoyant' who works the seedy underground of London or whatever made-up British city this is. Anyway. It's like a Dickens setting. The whole book has this kind of "faux-Victorian yet we're in the year 2056" vibe. People call each other stuff like, "dollymop" and tons of Victorian slang is used. Street urchins, tons of other stuff from Dickens novels, etc. etc. etc. Steampunk-ish.Shannon has created a whole slew of new words to describe her new world. There is an extensive glossary in the back. Reading this book is a slog. I only understood about 3/4 of it. Unless you want to be flipping back to the glossary every 8th word, you will have to grin and bear it and hope it starts making more sense as the book goes on.So, I'm already not liking the book (we're only talking about the first three chapters here) because Paige and her 'kind' are in hiding and hunted mercilessly (a la X-Men) because they have supernatural powers. Oh, and it's a really rough, brutal world. She is working for some guy who is obviously using her ruthlessly for her super-special super-rare power, - he cares nothing for her personally, but she's so valuable to him. Paige, for some cockamamie reason, can't see this - she likes her boss and is very, very loyal to him.Then, in Chapter 4, she is captured by the police and taken to a secret place (Oxford) where it turns out aliens - well, sort of aliens - have taken over Earth and that's why clairvoyance exists. Clairvoyants are hunted down by human police in order to be recruited as the slaves of these aliens, known as Rephaim.Paige - because she is pretty and also super-rare and special - is signaled out by the tallest, most handsome of all the Rephaim. And I was like, "Fuck no. Please don't tell me this is going where I THINK it's going..." But of course it is.NOT that she's sold into sexual slavery - that's not what I mean at all. Instead, this is one of those books, very popular, in which a young, pretty woman is sold into slavery and ends up FALLING IN LOVE with her master. Yes. Disgusting and putrid, I agree.Let's see: - She is branded. Physically, with an iron. - Stripped of her name and given a number. - Drugged tons of times because she's trying to escape or she needs to be 'broken' etc. - Drugged without her knowledge so that her 'master' can view all her memories as if he's watching a movie - she has NO idea that he's doing this, and once she does it's too late and irreversible. - Her friends are occasionally murdered in front of her. - She's almost gangraped. - The aliens "feed" on clairvoyant humans in a way similar to vampirism. Her master drinks her blood. You know how I feel about blood-drinking - it's disgusting. - He's 200 and she's around 19 or 20. Oh, yeah. Hate this trope. Ew. - What else? Let me think. Tons of stuff. Tons of bad stuff happens to her.And after this - after ALL THIS - she ends up having sexy thoughts and explorations with the 'tall, handsome' alien master who has violated her in so many ways since she got here. Because she "loves" him. Because he's "different than the rest of them." Excuse me while I go vomit in the corner. This doesn't happen 'til very near the end of the novel, but I could see it coming a mile away and the dread was building and solidifying in me with every conversation they had with one another.And she's supposed to be so strong. "Oh, she's so strong! So brave! So smart! So cheeky!" And yet she ends up undressing him, and being intimate with a man who OWNS her - not because he's forcing her - but because "he is just misunderstood - everything he did was for my own good - he's really a good man - blah blah blah". Bullshit! It's disgusting. It's filth. It's fucking insulting to me as a woman. You know who else loves to pull this shit? Maria V. Snyder. She's always having women 'fall in love' with the man who raped them, kidnapped them, or owned them as slaves. This whole line of thinking and plotline repulses me.I hate reading fictional accounts of slavery and human trafficking. I HATE IT. It disgusts me. I can read BBCMundo if I want to read about the slavery and trafficking of human beings - it's reality, and it happens every day. It's not what I want in my fiction. But even that is made so much worse by adding the insult of  making Paige - a supposedly strong, fiery 'take-on-the-world' person - fall in 'love' with her master.Blergh!There is nothing I can say to recommend this. This is a type of book I despise. Even if you stripped away the aspect I was discussing in the spoilers, it still has the problems of being a.) Mary-Sue main character. b.) Brutal and utterly depressing world full of pain, death, torture, slavery, degradation, etc. c.) Tons of weird slang that makes no sense. d.) A completely made-up, very complex system - actually more than one system - of supernatural stuff that is described in made-up nonsense words and you need a glossary to even get an inkling of what's going on.e.) There's tons of characters - I can't can't keep them straight much less bring myself to care about any of them.Terrible no matter which way you cut it, I'd say.