Updated ReviewAfter reading this for a 3rd time I have to raise my rating to 5 stars. It's such a great start to a series. It moves quickly but still develops the characters so well. It's exciting, emotional, intriguing. All around a great time and a series I will continue to return to again and again. Has to be 5 stars.Original Review"The Bone Season" is remarkable. It is unique. It is a work of an extremely talented young lady (she's only 22 years old! What?!). And it is the start to a series that I am so glad to have found early on. At the same time, I now have to torturously wait for the following installments.Paige Maloney is a dreamwalker, a type of clairvoyant that can invade the aether without any help from numen, and she is discovering her talent allows her to attack other's dreamscapes. Yeah, it's a whole lot to take in and understand. It is the first book of the series after all. The first 100 pages or so are quite confusing, because the world is new to you as the reader. But trust me, once you start to understand, you quickly are sucked into the world and won't stop reading until the book is over.Essentially, Paige finds herself pulled into a mysteriously world that has been allegedly eradicated, the old city of Oxford, in England. There she finds a mysterious supernatural society, the Rephaim, who are utilizing clairvoyants to fight off strange monsters called Emim. (Yeah, I know what you're thinking, what the heck? But just trust me on this).From there Paige is sort of struggling between her loyalty to her old mime-lord, Jaxon, and her new master, The Warden. She meets some interesting folk in Sheol I (the detainment city), and from there has to face the blood-sovereign, Nashira Sargas. Welcome to a sci-fi/fantasy book where there are strange names and lots of things to learn.DON'T READ ON IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK. POSSIBLE SPOILERS/TOO MUCH INFORMATION BELOW:Plot-wise: WOW. So intriguing. The world building is massive. Shannon really set herself up for an epic series. And I can't wait to see where it goes. So much potential for the future. The dilemmas are nothing new, but when they are set in this creative, new world, they become something more, and I really liked that. Characters: I love Paige. She is strong and confident, but she has a history that haunts her, and you see into that in some very interesting and even terrifying flashbacks. She is really well-developed as a main character, and I think Shannon wrote her perfectly into the story. Warden is an enigma to me; I want to love him as a supporting character, and at times I do, but then other times I question where his loyalties lie. Eek!Overall: Amazing. I know I am going to love this serious so much. Though it may not be for everyone, I thoroughly enjoyed this reading experience. I couldn't put it down; I thought about it when I wasn't reading it; basically, the perfect example of what I like in a book. It was something totally original (from what I've read), and I am thrilled to see a young writer making her way in the literary world.