"There was something vaguelyglorious about having a purpose again."I have mixed feelings about Forever. The plot is pretty awesome (the second half), and I love Cole and Isabel together, but I’m disappointed with the storyline of Sam and Grace.Maggie Stiefvater’s style is still as amazing in Forever as it was in Shiver and Linger. The story-building and the alternating viewpoints are delineated professionally.The first half of the novel basically gives a sitrep of the characters and is about waiting for Grace to change back from wolf into human.In the second half a serious threat comes up and the story speeds up: it is filled with danger, thrilling action, tension, uncertainty, unpredictability, sacrifices, and losses.But the ending!! Readers are left in doubt – I really, really hate it! I want a proof that everyone is happy!Cole & IsabelCole is unsettling, impudent, confident, and brilliant. And more than this! He overshines everyone. I loved his charisma, and I was amazed by his development, his research, and discoveries. He discovers not only certain things about being a wolf, but important things about being Cole.I had thought there’d be nothing left of me, once you took away the pounding bass of NARKOTIKA and the screams of a few hundred thousand fans and a calendar black with tour dates. But here it was, months later, and it turned out that there was fresh skin underneath the scab I’d picked off.I loved his bitter humor, self-irony, and courage. He gambles with his own body, own life to save the others.I’d planned out a few experiments that didn’t require a lab — just luck, my body, and some balls.Isabel. She is practical and without hesitation. But she is still building walls around herself. It is very difficult for her to open up. The only one she feels comfortable with is Cole.“Cole,” I said, “do you think I’m lovable?”“Maybe,” he said. “But you won’t let anybody try.” Sam & GraceSam is incapable to exist without Grace. His life without her is about waiting, thinking, dreaming, and waiting again. Sam and Grace’s love is said to be beautiful, limitless, and strong, but sadly I couldn’t feel it. There is a distance between them, some kind of alienation, deep melancholy.Sam always hesitates, and hates confrontation.Sam about himself:There was something in my expression that I didn’t recognize, something at once helpless and failing; whoever this Sam was, I didn’t know him.He is often helpless, tends to give up. At the end of the story, he agrees to risk something very important to save his pack. I understand Sam’s it, and I feel sympathy for him, but he merely does what he is told by Cole. Furthermore, it is not clear if his sacrifice is temporary or permanent, and I hate not knowing the long-term consequences of his deed.All in all5 stars to Cole and Isabel, 2 stars to Sam and Grace.My favorite quotes.