DNFI don't now why I even bothered with this book after the whole fiasco with Linger (Book 2). These last two books are a complete change of dynamics from Shiver (Book 1). It went from a sweet magical romance to a typical young-adult fantasy series with characters an plot-lines I couldn't care less about or find less interesting. The romance is what I loved so much about Shiver, it was beautiful, slow-building and tragic. That air of melancholy, that bubble of magic went away completely in the last two books.If you love romance I would recommend to read just the first book, it works perfectly as a standalone and it's charming.Shiver (Wolves of Mercy Falls #1) - 4.5 starsLinger (Wolves of Mercy Falls #2) - 2 starsSo, I went and read the following installments. Saying that I regretted it is an understatement. For a long time I was very angry about how this series ended up being. I thought that the two following installments weren't loyal to the first book and they were a mayor disappointment for me.Today (August 17, 2018), I answered a friend's comment that got me thinking. I realized that what I found with Shiver and did not find with the following books had more to do with me and who I am, than with the actual books. My friend AussieMum wrote in a comment about Wolfsong (Green Creek #1), a book she absolutely loved: "[...]The funny thing is that I'm reading the sequel now and not loving it at all. [...]. Gonna put it down and read something else, clear my head before I give it another go.  It's funny how one book can speak so much to you and another makes no impact whatsoever." Reading her last sentence got me thinking. I saw myself in the same situation as her with The Wolves of Mercy Falls series. So I shared that common experience with her and told her that for whatever reason I found Shiver mesmerizing and utterly amazing, that the way it was written, the story and its characters got to me (which I believe was also how she felt about Wolfsong). And that yet, when I moved on to the second installment I couldn't be more disappointed, that it was such a let down, I had to force myself to finish it and I ended up wishing I had never read the second one and to have consider Shiver as a stand alone. After that, I had my realization:The thing is, I think, occasionally, we find a book that matches with us deeply, with our mood, situations, wants, dreams and personality so much that we see something entirely different from what other people might see, something even different than what the author intended for us to see. We miss other aspects of it, directions the writer wants to take us towards. So when we get the sequel we expect the same as before, the place where the first book took us. But the story has moved on in another direction, a direction we missed the first time because we took our own particular turn, a turn that made us read a completely different book that what it was intended to be. This realization makes sense to me and it has helped me to come to terms with my feelings towards this series. I am not angry anymore, or disappointed. Now, I just understand myself better.