WARNING: Rape & sexual violence. I'm too pissed to let this subject slide off in my review.I feel like head-banging the walls at how ‘oh-so-dark-and-morbid’ this book is. I can't even bring myself to say ‘This is so dark oMG!1!’ without feeling the need to roll my eyes off my sockets. Gross exaggeration there but I just can't take this book seriously when everything about it is so fucking flat and one-note with no complexity nor weight to it, and my god does this book tries too hard, too over-the-top to paint the picture of a brutal world. It outright angered me.This is categorized as Adult, and rightly so because there are actual graphic details of maiming where you'll find yourself knee-deep in bloody entrails, and not to mention, there are a ton of raping and sex assault going on here. A LOT of it.The way this book tosses out the brutality of rape like it's nothing more but a tool to make the story have that dark, adult and edgy spice to it felt so fucking cheap. If a character with a vagina enters the picture then it's rape alllllll the fucking way. That, or she's under the constant threats of rape. Even our Pretty Alice here wasn't spared except she was the only one who managed to fight off her assailant while the others cower, fall prey and waste away. Why? Because our special heroine needs equally special reasons to back up the fact that she's brave, noble and whatever-the-fuck-else that adds more appeal to her bland characterization.If I look past all the ‘doom & gloom’, I see nothing much that I can compliment on other than a very strong, compelling beginning that nearly drove me up the wall with WANT when I read the sample chapter, but that was it. The only kicks I got was when Alice and Hatcher interacted together through a mouse hole that separates them, and the whole talk about the Jabberwocky intrigued me if only for a while. It all went to hell when I realize that I felt remote from all the characters here; I don't fear for them because things go too smoothly and convenient. I don't connect nor do I feel for them because the writing leans too much toward telling instead of showing. I have NO clear pictures of the sketchy world-building(the mediocre writing doesn't help either). The villains hardly made me quiver with fear in my socks since they're so laughingly one-dimensional who has no real depths or complex motives to them. I've read better retellings, better horror books and this is the weakest one so far. Do I still recommend this? Only if you're willing to sidestep that broach of sensitive subject and take a tumble down the rabbit hole to a completely un-Wonderland then  Alice might just be for you. 2.5 stars