Welcome to the grimy tales of Alice in Darkland. Team of Alice and Hatcher or let’s call them ALCHER are getting out of the asylum for avenging the people who put them there and leave for nearly 10 freaking years!Alice was raped by a rabbit and she retaliated by taking his eye with the knife as like the rabbit put an ugly knife scar across the cheeks to mark her. She ran away in front of the horrified servants of rabbit but her own family disowned her so the only person helped her to survive throughout her asylum years was Hatcher who also witnessed the massacre of his wife and kidnapping of his own daughter.Team Alcher reminds you of Natural Born Killers’ Mickey and Mallory or You’s Joe and Love but their only resemblance is being blood thirsty killers. They’re not sociopaths, stalkers, obsessive psychopaths. Both of them keeps their light and goodness inside but the traumatic experiences and abandonment made them who they are right now!This retelling is dirty, irritating, nerve bending, graphic, brutal, It’s even darker than Grimm Brothers stories. There are massacres, rape, illegal girl trafficking, cannibalism, violent murders. You feel like you just stepped into the dark side of the moon.At some parts I couldn’t decide if I should be afraid of the monsters of the books or inner monsters of the normal people who took control of them for diving into more violent acts. When Alcher leaves the asylum, they accidentally freed one of the most dangerous creature: Jabberwocky out there. But at some parts we see that Alice can control Jabberwock so does it make her more terrifying creature?When Alice follows her bloody, gruesome, vulgar path, she turns into Tarantino’s Bride from Kill Bill and starts her avenging game. Her partners in crime Hatcher accompanied her at everywhere, they saved each other’s lives and at the end we understand their stories didn’t end so far.This one is exciting, heart throbbing but also mind numbing and definitely so much bloody journey that I can ever imagine. (Yes, this story should be adapted into series but only Tarantino’s direction can deal with so much blood, violence, rottenness!)I loved the first book and I’m so ready to dive into second one even though there are mixed reviews and heavy criticism about the direction of the story. Let’s read and decide about it!