If you expect to read to a charming, sweet fairy tale, a hearts and flowers kind of sweet,soft, swoon story, just close the book! And find yourself another read! Because this is twisty, bloody bleak, harsh, dark, deliciously disturbing and dystopian version of the fairytale, a unique, creative, refreshing retelling! And I truly devoured it ! It was fun, smart, original , great work!  The book takes place in a horrifying, nightmarish world where the abusive monsters govern and the women are properties of them with no free will, independence! You can start screaming! I exactly did the same when I was reading those chapters about the king who is living breathing, detestable monster!  All those innocent women suffer from humiliation, threats and more abuse they can hardly stand for. Only way out for them attending to a ball and being chosen by proper candidate. If nobody chooses them they have to face a terrifying kind of threatening future awaits unwanted women. They get suspiciously vanished into thin air as if they have been never there at the first place.  Our Sophia is straightforward, brave, a true rebellious who is afraid of speaking from her heart is in love with childhood friend Erin but her mother pushes her to choose a boy, finding an appropriate match to marry at the ball. Of course Sophia rejects to be chosen by a guy she will never feel anything serious! She’s proud to be gay! So this is end of discussion! She runs away from ball, hiding herself at Cinderella mausoleum, meeting with Constance , last descendant of Cinderella and her lovely (okay, I wrote it to make sure you still read my review with full attention, of course they were grumpy and irritating) step sisters. Constance is a bold, risk taker, straight forward, true vigilante who wants to fight against the patriarchy and she finds the perfect companion to complete the mission! Hurray! Girl power! I loved this twisty version of story with great, thought provoking criticism of patriarchy and Sophia is well crafted, relatable, powerful character we may truly support and chant for! I’m giving my four dark retelling, moving, great queer representation, riveting stars! What a fantastic, moving, provocative, powerful ride!