I did it. I finished this book. This rating is painful for me, because I was honestly expecting to at least like it. This isn't an awful book, but I usually follow the goodreads rating system and one star doesn't always mean I hate it. It can also mean that I didn't like anything about the story and the characters. I considered giving it two stars for the representation, which is the only good thing about this book, but I decided that would be condescending instead of supportive - which doesn't mean I don't understand why people gave it two stars instead of one for this reason.Cinderella Is Dead is a book that many people have been talking about before it was released, which is normal: a Cinderella retelling with a twist, girls fighting patriarchy, a black heroine and a f/f romance, of course I was excited to read it too. While Cinderella has never been one of my favorites fairytales, I do love retellings and the whole point of it is that it can make something you weren't that crazy about so much more interesting. Unfortunately, I realized very fast that this book wasn't for me. Literally nothing is working, everything I was expecting and excited for fell flat.The heroine is totally uninteresting, which is mostly due to the writing. This is the author's debut, which leaves room for improvement and I hope this will be the case. I don't want the author to tell me things, I want the author to show me those things. I don't want the author to tell me why the heroine do this or think a certain way, I want the author to show it to me, to give the heroine a real personality and story that explains her thoughts and actions. It's to the point that instead of rooting for Sophia to rebel against misogyny and homophobia, I found her annoying. Why does Sophia rebel? Because this is an awful society to live in? That would make sense and it was what I wanted, but here it's because I'm told that awful people would never let her be happy. Show me, don't just tell me.The society Sophia lives in is also a caricature. Like, honestly, I was supposed to be revolted, right? But instead, I was just rolling my eyes at how every man in this book (except three of them) was so misogynistic and homophobic. I think that since we already live in a society full of that discrimination, the caricature wasn't needed to understand how awful it is. And the villain is no exception when it comes to the caricature. It would probably make a good Disney movie, and I love Disney movies, but that's not what I wanted from this book. In fact, the writing, the plot, the characters: I felt like I was reading a MG book, not a YA book. There's absolutely nothing wrong with MG of course, they're just not my favorite books and not what I was expecting when I picked this book.Is it saved by an amazing f/f romance? Unfortunately, no. Sophia forgets her first love interest as soon as she meets another girl, and bam, instalove. Said love interest has no more depth than Sophia or any other character in this book, and I didn't care about them. In fact, the only characters that seemed to be interesting (Luke and Fairy Godmother) are barely there. The other point that got on my nerves was the french names of characters and places mixed with others names that are definitely not french. I don't really see the point, and it just serves to make the world-building even weaker.Probably my biggest disappointment of the year, I know this book is already loved by many readers and I'm glad they had a great time reading this book. I don't think many people will be happy with my rating, but that's okay, I'm prepared.