For gosh sakes, there are still two more books in this series??? Why? To what end? Here's the plot, let me know if you've heard this before, a few thousand times. Mortal teenager meets supernatural being of the opposite sex, experiencing instantaneous connection while supernatural being acts oddly and tells mortal that they must stay apart, that it's too dangerous, etc. Yet against all odds the two become a couple and after much drama and a battle, they are happily together.So, we get to book two, in which the supernatural being pulls away from the mortal teenager, again for the mortal's own good, because the supernatural being is too angst-ridden and just plain idiotic to actually discuss anything with the love of their life. Also, appearing in book two, is the required stand-in possible love interest that as a reader you can never quite believe in because if the mortal and the super-being are fated, star-crossed lovers, then adding in another one makes absolutely no sense and only diminishes the power of their love story. Are you following me?So, I guess the third book will have more running around, trying to outwit the baddies while the supernatural continues to dither around about their exact nature, good or bad.And the fourth book will create the way for them to be together, even though we’ve been told over and over and over that they cannot be together. There could be an impossible (per the autor's own canon) mutant child that will grow up overnight allowing the cast aside love interest to have a mini-version of their lost almost-love. Nah, that's too far out for anyone to believe. It will end with a major climactic battle in which all the baddies will be destroyed, the world made right, or else a small debate after which the baddies decide to walk away.I AM BORED WITH THIS PLOT.I enjoyed the first Caster series book, but this one is very flat and goes on far too long for no real reason. This whole five hundred pages could have been a few short chapters. Honestly, the first two hundred pages are Ethan moaning because Lena has pretty much dumped him. Yet he continues to follow after her and feel badly every time she treats him like dirt. After this, they spend the remainder of the book running about in the Caster tunnels and it seems as endless as the tunnels themselves. It goes on and on until the last fifty pages when things finally start to happen. This isn’t good. I don’t know why we had to have Liv pushed into the story as someone Ethan constantly thinks ‘what if’ about. What if I met her first? What if I never met Lena? What if I just almost kiss her a time or two and we snuggle up and sleep together? Here’s my what if. What if Liv had been a guy named Leo and we were spared all of this nonsense? Liv’s being female didn’t add anything to the story and could have been left out. I’m sick of this triangle plot. It. Is. Unnecessary. The story in this installment didn’t draw me in and I couldn’t care about Lena. She became very unsympathetic and I don’t like her any more. And after all of this, this journey to save her, her involvement with someone else (which is overlooked), the pain she has caused Ethan, in the end, she chooses NOT to choose. She doesn’t claim herself, she claims nothing and does nothing. That’s it, for all of this waste of time, all the sacrifices everyone makes for her and they are monumental, she chooses not to be good or bad, to just be her. So we can expect that sometimes she’s going to do bad things and sometimes good? Not a character to whom I can feel any connection.And what is with all the “L” names? Link. Lila. Lena. Liv. Leah. Lucille. Larkin.This reason it gets a two instead of a one is because there were a few small things that I liked or that surprised me. The Caster cat was a nice addition as was learning more about Amma and members of Ethan’s family. Finding out more about Ethan was interesting, but not enough to save the book. Macon. Ethan's voice and observations. The mystery of John Breed wasn’t really developed enough, but I guess that’s for one of the next books.  All in all, this book was very uneven and tough to get through.AND oh my goodness, it just occured to me. Marian the Librarian! Not even original. Anyone seen the Music Man? *edit* I hve learned my lesson, it was difficult and I had to suffer extreme eye rolling and boredom but I have seen the light. I'm done with this series and don't care how it ends. I'm giving up on series that have so little to them that they shouldn't be serialized and don't have any growth in the characters and waste my time.