2nd Read “I will be with you always.” this series means the world to me, and no matter how many books I read in the future, I will never, ever forget it.buddy read with caitlin! (I loved reading all of the reactions!) the ending never fails to make me cry.<><><><><><><><>“Let’s make this a fight worthy of a song.” I suppose I have to write this review now. I had to take a few hours to compose my thoughts because I was a mess once I finished this. I'll probably start crying while writing this review so if it gets chaotic, I'm sorry. (also, this book sticks out like a sore thumb with the other books in this series. It's so bright) And once again, it took me 2-3 days to read a 900+ page book in this series. They're addicting.This series....I think it's become my favorite of all time. Even surpassing The Cruel Prince. These characters have buried themselves into my heart and they aren't ever leaving. I've grown to cherish and love them all and I was literally crying as I pushed myself through the final pages, not wanting to leave them. I would give anything to meet these characters and live in their world, no matter the wars that might be brewing in the book, or new villains who pop up. When I finished this book, I felt empty. I sat on my bed and stared at the wall, taking deep breaths as I realized that I would never get to read about these characters for the first time. Even when I read The Assassin's Blade, it will be Celaena and Sam, and I won't get to see these characters (Rowan, Aelin, Elide, Manon, Dorian etc) ever again. And that's sad. The Plot“Once upon a time, in a land long since burned to ash, there lived a young princess who loved her kingdom …”I knew this book was going to make me cry. I knew right from before I even started this series that this book would kill me because I could already tell I was going to love this series and its characters. And indeed, that did in fact happen. This plot was absolutely insane and it literally destroyed me. I found myself holding my breath many times and I was so scared someone was going to die. With such a huge cast of characters, I was afraid for everyone. There was intense battle scene after intense battle scene, and I was tense and not breathing through all of them, fearing the absolute worst. The different story lines that intertwined, the times when characters finally reunited, were absolute perfection. I honestly wouldn't change anything about this book Except more Lorcan and Elide scenes.The CharactersThis is the hardest part. Having to leave these characters behind and say goodbye. To write about them one final time. Some may call me dramatic for all of these sentimental things I'm saying, but I've grown to love and adore these characters as if they were real people. Which is kind of concerning, but that doesn't matter. There are a LOT of characters in this series, so there are a lot of character overviews here. Aelin Ashryver Whitethorn Galathynius“I am a god.”One of my favorite protagonists of all time. Aelin is the definition of badass, snarky, arrogant, and yet she cares so deeply for the ones she loves that she was willing to sacrifice herself for the good of her people and her friends. After the end of Empire of Storms, I was so scared as to what may happen to her. I didn't think Sarah J. Maas would kill off the main main character, but I mean you never know. In all of her scenes where she was using her powers, I was grinning because Aelin was back and she was her normal sarcastic self. When she was yelling "take it off" over and over again- that scene ripped my heart out and stomped it into the ground. Seeing Aelin so weak and fragile was absolutely heartbreaking.I don't think any book protagonist can top Aelin as one of my favorites. Manon Blackbeak“We are the Thirteen,” she said. “From now until the Darkness claims us.”Manon is another one of my favorite protagonists. She's incredible: cold yet still loving, especially towards the Thirteen and Abraxos Speaking of Abraxos- I thought he was going to die and I was literally crying during that scene because seeing Manon pleading to Iskra to get the bull away from Abraxos pained me so much. I was so sad for her throughout this, and especially when some things happened. But when she fought against the Matrons! Literal queen. Manon is such a special character and I HIGHLY doubt any character will be like her.Rowan Whitethorn“To whatever end,” he whispered.”My one true love. (Though I feel like the love has SLIGHTLY decreased since Heir of Fire but we don't talk about that.) Sometimes I wished he was real so badly that it hurt. Sometimes I wished I was Aelin so that Rowan would be in love with me but we also don't talk about that. He went through so much in this book, his agony from being separated from Aelin was killing me. When Maeve made him have that vision of Aelin? I was tearing up so badly, the tears threatening to spill onto the book. The love he has for Aelin is incredible. I'm not jealous. I'm not- Yes I am.His love and respect for his Cadre is also one of my favorite things. I love how he gets along with them and how he actually cares for them. Rowan is irreplaceable in my heart. Dorian Havilliard“Together,” Dorian breathed, shaking. “We’ll rebuild this world together.”This scene gutted me and made me cry so hard. I've loved Dorian since the very beginning. He was my favorite in the first book. I watched as he grew into the character he is right now through the series, as he grew into his powers, into his friendships and relationships. I adore Dorian with all of my heart. The stuff he had to go through in this book and series is awful, but so admirable, especially in this book. Though I must admit, some of those things Dorian said while shifted into a woman were just NO. He was willing to risk his own life for the sake of the kingdom. Willing to take Aelin's spot for the sake of the kingdom. Dorian deserves everything. Elide Lochan“Life—life was pain. Pain, and joy. Joy because of the pain. He saw it in Elide’s face.”I love Elide so much. Her character growth and her strengths are incredible. I love her growing friendship with Yrene and how she helped so many people. Her relationships with Aelin and Manon are forever some of my favorites as well. And when she went out onto the battlefield to find Lorcan I was literally crying because I was terrified that she or him would die. That scene was probably the scariest one of the whole book. I was honestly convinced that if one of the characters died in this book, it would be Elide or Lorcan.Elide is so strong and courageous and she's certainly one of my favorite protagonists in this series. Aedion Ashryver“Together,” Aedion rasped.”This. Scene. Aedion is incredible. Sometimes. I hated how he treated Lysandra in this book. It did make sense as to why he was angry, but Lysandra and Aelin had come up with the plan, but he had no right to do what he did to her, and call her what he did in the fits of anger. When Lysandra called him out on them, it felt like a breath of fresh air. But Aedion is still a really good character, once he realized his mistakes. He's strong and certainly cares for his cousin and friends. I felt so bad for him when a certain scene happened. Lysandra Ashryver- I didn't know her last name so I may as well put this one in“Remember that we have something to fight for, and it will always triumph.”I love her character. She's so sarcastic and fun, but yet so nice and loving. She isn't my favorite character in this series, but she's still such an amazing character and I love her. Lorcan Salvaterre AKA Lord Lorcan Lochan- I'm never getting over that name“So Lorcan said softly, “I meant every word.”I loved that scene. I still do love that scene. Lorcan got off to a rough start in this series for me- at first I was indifferent towards him, unsure how to feel, but he has EASILY reached one of my favorites. He just seems so hard on the outside, but yet he is so sweet. To Elide at least The sacrifices he made and how he redeemed himself from the end of EoS which had been a COMPLETE misunderstanding made me love him even MORE. I want a spin-off with him and Elide please and thank you.Chaol Westfall“Be the bridge, be the light. When iron melts, when flowers spring from fields of blood—let the land be witness, and return home.”I was surprised at how little Chaol was in this in the beginning, and even more surprised at how much I wanted to read his chapters. I shouldn't have been that surprised, considering I learned to love him in Tower of Dawn, but still. Chaol's leadership skills shone through in this book, and how much he cares for Yrene is amazing. I know he's going to have a wonderful life. Yrene Westfall“For across every mountain, spread beneath the green canopy of Oakwald, carpeting the entire Plain of Theralis, the kingsflame was blooming.”Yrene is in the top 5 of my favorite characters in this series. While I do prefer her in Tower of Dawn, mainly because she was actually a main character and focus in that book, she was still incredible in this book. She literally saved them all in more ways than one. If I forgot any characters, apologies, because I can't think of them all. Here are a few notes on other characters:Fenrys: I always will adore Fenrys. I was terrified for him throughout this book, especially in the beginning. Nesryn: A natural born leader. I loved how she was with Sartaq and all of that army, and how she fought alongside Aelin. I love her character. I don't want to leave these characters. The RelationshipsI think the relationships in this series are one of the best parts. They all have such good chemistry, and because I don't want to spoil people, I'm gonna have to put most of them in spoiler tags. Rowan and Aelin“To whatever end?” she breathed. Rowan followed her, as he had his entire life, long before they had ever met, before their souls had sparked into existence. “To whatever end, Fireheart.”I will always and forever shout about my eternal love for these two. I've shipped them since I found out about them, before I even read the series, and I will continue to ship them my whole life. No one compares to the love that these two have. It hurt me so much when these two were parted, when they felt the mate bond pulling thin. But they always find each other in the end. They are one of the greatest love stories I have had the pleasure of reading about. Nothing and no one in a book will ever compare to the love these two share. Elide and Lorcan“Ask me to marry you.”Elide began crying, even as she laughed. “Will you marry me, Lorcan Salvaterre?”He swept her up into his arms, raining kisses over her face. As if some final, chained part of him had been freed. “I’ll think about it.”I love these two almost as much as Rowan and Aelin. And that's saying something. I was scared that these two were going to die together, especially during that battlefield scene, especially when Lorcan was about to throw himself off of the horse to save Elide's life. The immense slowburn and tension they had throughout this book was insane. I was scared that they weren't gonna get back together, but I shouldn't have doubted them. Their scenes were so sweet, especially the one with the quote above. We also love the "hates everyone but her" trope and Lorcan is practically the definition of that trope. Though I have a feeling that he grows fond of Aelin.“I love you,” he whispered in Elide’s ear. “I have loved you from the moment you picked up that axe to slay the ilken.” Her tears flowed past him in the wind. “And I will be with you …” His voice broke, but he made himself say the words, the truth in his heart. “I will be with you”This line caused me to lose it.Also, I waited the whole entire book just for a "AnD So LorCan DiD." WHAT DID HE DO HUH?? I WAITED THE THREE OR WHATEVER BOOKS FOR A FADE TO BLACK??Thank goodness for fanfictionManon and DorianWhy. Can't. I. Find. Any. QUOTES FOR THEM? I mean, I've scoured the internet and the only way for me to find one myself is to go back into that 900+ page book to find one and that is certainly not happening. Anyways, I am in desperate need of an endgame with these two. I have no doubt that they end up together after this book, but I NEED confirmation! Fanart, fanfiction, and my mind are not enough. I just need hope. But these two are amazing. They fought for each other throughout and I need them to marry, just like they kept "joking" about. Even Yrene brought it up. So yes, I am going to tell myself that these two marry. No one can stop me.Chaol and Yrene“Yrene is the finest healer of her generation,” Chaol said with deadly quiet. “Her worth is greater than any crown.”Despite how I flipped out when I realized that Yrene was pregnant the second she put her hand on her stomach, I grew to not mind it. BUT. If the baby had been born ON PAGE, yeah no, I would've been so mad. Babies ruin everything in books. That's why I HATE imagining my favorite characters with children. I hate it. But anyways, I love these two. The same as always, they are devoted to each other, and when Chaol was becoming so overprotective of Yrene was so sweet.Aedion and Lysandra“So Aedion leaned in, and kissed Lysandra, kissed the woman who should have been his wife, his mate, one last time.”I thought they were going to die after this scene and I was flipping out. I knew these two would get together the INSTANT they met each other earlier in the series. The chemistry was undeniable, and I do like these two together. They may be my least favorite couple, but I still have lots of love to give to them.This review did take a chaotic turn. But that's fine. I liked writing it out, writing about these characters one last time. It sure has been a journey, exploring the depths of this series and learning more about the characters. I wish I never have to go. But all good things must come to an end. And so, I have finally completed the Throne of Glass series. (not counting The Assassin's Blade) This review may have been slightly dramatic, but I'm dramatic, so that is fine. I'm going to miss these characters and world so much, so I may as well convey all of my feelings into this review. And yeah, I did cry while writing this.These characters have forever impacted me with their words and stories, and I will never forget this series. 5 stars“Be the bridge, be the light. When iron melts, when flowers spring from fields of blood—let the land be witness, and return home.”<><><><><><><><>nothing will ever comparertc<><><><><><><><>Why is the book so big though