I think the only reason this exists is because Tor was looking to push themselves as a diverse SFF publisher, and nary anyone sent in some LGBT+ fantasy except Ms Polk lmao. (edit: I've since learned that Polk was in the set of writers who were prominent on LJ in the mid-aughts, helmed by the dread RaceFail-era Elizabeth Bear, so - give a cheer for industry connections!)It’s a very thin, straightforward book, and I thought it might be otherwise because of the reviews and the promotion and the promise of the setting and premise. Seriously, the promotion. Tor put in a LOT of money to make people think this was good.I’ve read better worldbuilding, characterization and romance in self-published and indie-published queer fantasy books (hellooooooo The Shattered Gates). Seriously, this book needed about 100 more pages of padding throughout to explain, I don’t know… the system of government, the society of mages, why the Invisibles/Aeland's nobility must keep their magic secret, the history of witchcraft persecution, the political context of the big freakin’ war that just ended, what who where Laneer even is, how long was the war even, how the use of aether came about, the myths of the Amaranthine… Miles’ age, when his mother was murdered. So much description was put on food and clothes and transportation and nowhere near as much worldbuilding for what was happening.And maybe 100 or so more pages to establish character. Like, Miles’ family is LITERALLY the most powerful in the country other than the Monarchy’s, and I didn’t see this reflected in him at all. Tristan is from a godlike fae race, and his characterization didn’t reflect this must either other than him being vaguely all-knowing all the time. All the other characters were pretty flat as well, Grace was probably the most complex but even then it was all just so straightforward and eh.There was definitely promise – the setting sounded gorgeous and interesting, the magic system and society built around that, the magical equivalent of PTSD/shell shock was a really interesting idea too. The rough shape of the plot AND the romance was actually really good, reflecting on it. They all had the promise of a fantastic novel, but I feel it would have been better if – and this is always an awful thing to say, I cringe at myself – it had been written by another author with a more refined writing toolkit. It could have just been a simple fluff piece to read on my commute but it had these glimmers of being something more, so I just ended up frustrated with the book and skimmed it until the end just so I could be done and move onto better books.Everything just… happened in this book, painfully linear and straightforward without much suspense being built between the three strands of plot. Like, it was coherent, which is a plus, but the delivery was lacking much impact. Like, we had so many major, in-context absolutely world-rocking revelations – like the fact that witches are no different to mages, and they’re being put in asylums where noble-born mages based on class structures, and it was SO easily discovered, SO easily accepted by the protagonists and we just moved on. Hell, the Invisibles are supposed to be this great secret society, but it's not presented with any great significance or context - the way the story read, they would work as either a well-known, widely accepted organisation or a secret one, it made very little impact either way. I feel this was definitely a product of the lack of worldbuilding to give us more context, but also a lack of characterization – every character had such simple and black-and-white motivations – and a lack of the author’s… will to care about executing these revelations well. Like, when Tristan is revealed to be Amaranthine, and that was the first time we had ever heard of the Amaranthine in-story?  Seriously. How were we supposed to care ?And then the ending was just very abrupt and everything I hate in romances lmao. Miles and Tristan are getting MARRIED? It’s been, like, a week, they’ve kissed twice and done the naughty naughty once. Please, they should be agreeing to go on their first date to explore whether their attraction and teamwork can translate into compatibility as romantic partners, not MAGIC LIFE BONDING.