4.5 stars*heavenly choir*Oh my God, I love this book so much! This was one of my most anticipated reads of 2018 and it did not disappoint. I fulfilled all of my needs and paid off in the end. I cannot describe how much I enjoyed my time reading Girls of Paper and Fire.This may be a fantasy story, but the messages behind it are so prevalent in our time. A lot of my friends have said that the book is about rape culture, how rape is about power, and I agree with them. There are so many good messages in the story about reclaiming your body and life after rape and the bonds people make who can help support each other. It was fantastic. 😁😁CW: Rape (happens off-page but is still horrific), attempted rape, abuse, sexual assault, animal death.Girls of Paper and Fire is an Asian inspired fantasy story where there are three castes in which people are separated in.Paper - Humans.Steel - Half human half demon. They look almost human but have some sort of animal characteristic.Moon - Full fledged demons who are fully animal. Lei, our main protagonist, is a paper girl helping out her father at their herbal shop. One day, Lei is forcefully taken away from her home to be a Paper Girl. Each year, the demon king takes eight paper girls from around the country and make them his concubines. Lei is actually the ninth paper girl because of her unusual golden demon eyes, which is what got her kidnapped. Her mother got taken years ago to be a paper girl and now it's her turn.From the moment I read the first sentence of the story, I knew I was going to fall in love with it. Ngan wrote such a unique story set in an Asian world dealing with sex trafficking. The world is both beautiful yet horrific. When a fantasy world does that, it makes me all the more interested in the world building and the characters.Being that this is an Asian inspired novel, I was fascinated by how much work Ngan put into creating it. From the clothes to the architect of the buildings, it was done well. This is an ownvoices story and I absolutely loved it. Though the story does take place in one setting for a good chunk of the book, there are hints that more of the world will be explored and I am eagerly waiting for it.The character of Lei is one I really liked. She is a character who is adamant about wanting to escape being the king's concubine. She has a lot of self-worth in herself as a human and isn't afraid to say or do something if it means protecting herself, her family, and even a few of the paper girls. When she gets thrown to the ground, she gets back up. When it seems like the odds are not in her favor, she still fights on. This is a f/f story and I like the slow burn of it. It is also a forbidden romance which is usually a hit or miss. A hit if it's done right, a miss if there is unnecessary drama. Thankfully this was a hit. The developing love between Lei and Wren was cute.The one major gripe I have would have to be the villain, the demon king. Villains are complex characters because they didn't start off as villains. What happened to them becoming a villain is what makes them a complex character. The demon king, while evil, wasn't fleshed out. He was sort of one-dimensional.VerdictI very much enjoyed Girls of Paper and Fire. I had high hopes for it and it paid off well. I'm looking forward to reading the next book. Thanks for reading my review!-Cesar