This book opens at the peak of edgy grimdark with this little gem:And I will tell you everything of how, later, as the quiet of death descended, I whispered:Right now.Right now.And the Earth whispered back:Burn.Which is so melodramatic that I could only imagine Hoa dressed as a teenage goth girl and I laughed out loud.The Broken Earth is hateful trilogy of hating; so it's appropriate that book 3 emphasised that the Earth was alive and conscious and really really hated humanity. Like every other character in this book, Father Earth was petty and resentful, even going so far as to descend to the most childish of self-justifications: 'You started this!' He wanted revenge on humans because they tried to drill to the core, without stopping to think about how Earth would feel about that. Of course, humans didn't know that Earth was living and conscious, so they never gave a second though to his feelings. This was presented as a terrible failure on the part of humanity:So where they should have seen a living being; they saw only another thing to exploit. Where they should have asked, or left alone, they raped.Well, I'm sorry, but Father Earth was actually the one at fault here. Humans didn't know that Earth was conscious, but Earth knew that humans were. Why didn't he make some attempt to reach out and communicate? Instead, he just bided his time, let humans continue in their blithe ignorance, and went straight to genocide as his first move. Not cool, Earth. Not cool.The next paragraph got weird and vindictive:For some crimes there is no fitting justice – only reparation. So for every iota of life siphoned from beneath the Earth's skin, the Earth has dragged a million human remnants into its heart. Bodies rot in soil, after all – and soil sits upon tectonic plates, plates eventually subduct into the fire under the Earth's crust, which convect endlessly through the mantle... and there within itself, the Earth eats everything they were. This is only fair, it reasons – coldly, with an anger that still shudders up from the depths to crack the world's skin and touch off Season after Season.In every other human mythology it's understood that life comes from the earth and returns to earth and this is a good thing! Only in the twisted, miserable world of The Stillness is this not a natural part of the cycle, but an act of bitter revenge. It's also rather peculiar because presumably people were burying their dead long before the drilling started, which confusingly suggests that Earth was hating humanity long before they gave him a reason to – or perhaps somehow in the past he absorbed the dead but, like, not in a mean way? I don't know.Of course, Father Earth was just acting like every other character in the book. Alabaster began by tolerating the Fulcrum right up until he ripped the Earth in half. Essun kept her secrets in Tirimo until she murdered them all. Nobody in The Stillness seemed to understand the concept of attempting negotiation before waging war, attempting reform before launching revolution, attempting reconciliation rather than genocide, or ever, ever giving anyone else the benefit of the doubt.Which brings us to the Stone Eaters. It was pretty cool to discover that the stone eaters were created as a living bridge between the humans of the great civilisation of Syl Anagist and the powers of orogeny that the Sylanagistines were trying to control.They were created in the image of The Niess, a tribe of people who were objectively better at using magic than the Sylanagistines, and were subsequently destroyed and dissected by the Sylanagistines in search of the biological cause of their superiority (of course, this is The Stillness, so apparently nobody thought to ask them first, or observe. Nope, it's all genocide, all the time, here on the Stillness).So the Sylanagistines have created the Stone Eaters and actually given them the power that the Niess were only rumoured to have. Despite being their creators, the Sylanagistines were totally unaware of the real extent of the power of the Stone Eaters. This lead to an narrative of oppression that we're all familiar with from books 1 and 2. The Stone Eaters accepted their role until they were taken on a field trip of the city and learnt that the whole city was powered by the corpses of the Niess:Some of them we can see breathing, though the motion is so very slow. Many wear tattered rags for clothes, dry-rotted with years; a few are naked. Their hair and nails have not grown, and their bodies have not produced waste that we can see. Nor can they feel pain, I sense instinctively; this, at least, is a kindness. That is because the sinklines take all the magic of life from them save the bare trickle needed to keep them alive. Keeping them alive keeps them generating more.I don't mean to be unfeeling, but this is a perpetual motion machine! If you put in a bare trickle of magic and yet they put out more magic than you put in, then you have an unlimited supply of energy and there's no need to drill to the core of the earth! Problem solved!One might say that even if they Sylanagistines realised that they have an actual source of unlimited energy! it'd still wrong to use human beings as batteries. As a metaphor for slavery or imperialism, it's obvious as an anvil, but as something that we're supposed to accept as literally true within the world, it's a little hard to swallow. Hoa wondered about their scientist guide: 'It is as if he does not see what we're seeing. As if these stored, componentized lives mean nothing to him.' It is indeed exactly like that! I had to re-read it to check that the bodies were literally there and not something only visible to the Stone Eaters. Why didn't they ask him about it? Why didn't they try to get him to acknowledge the vast corpse field or justify it? Why did people never, ever speak to each other like normal human beings in this book? No instead, they accepted it silently and began to plot - what else – mass-murder of the the Sylanagistines.This is so frustrating for the reader. The Sylanagistines perpetrated some of the worst evil. And yet, in every other respect they're depicted as normal people. This is a disconnect that can only be bridged by letting them speak out and show how normal people rationalise and excuse the wrong that they do.Likewise, it's not clear how these scientists controled and punished the Stone Eaters. There are references to it like: 'I understand precisely why Kelenli has spoken in this dismissive tone, and why she hasn't bothered to say farewell before leaving. It's no more than any of us do, when we must watch or sess another of our network punished, we pretend not to care.' but without every saying what the punishments are!I can't help but feel in the end that we were never told what the punishments are so that we never got to form our own judgements. Likewise, we never heard any Sylanagistine explanation for their actions, just in case we agreed with them! Much easier not to ask and just take Hoa's word for it, staying safely in his perspective.And although we've seen enough horror to last a lifetime, what Hoa reacted to most is petty disrespect:They keep such lax security on us. […] Some of the sensors monitor our magic usage – and none of them, not one, can measure even a tenth of what we really do. I would be insulted if I had not just been shown how important it is to them that we be lesser. Lesser creatures don't need better monitoring, do they? Creations of Sylanagistine magestry cannot possibly have abilities that surpass it. Unthinkable! Ridiculous! Don't be foolish.Fine. I am insulted. And I no longer have the patience for Stahnyn's polite patronization.There is more rage about workplace patronization than there was about the field of corpses. And it's so woefully misplaced. Hoa assumed that they want him to be lesser, instead of realising that they might've genuinely believe it because he'd been making an effort to act that way: they didn't respect his power because he'd been carefully hiding it from them! And of course, it never occurred to him to gain their respect by showing his power or trying to initiate a conversation. No, he wanted a tighter prison and closer surveillance as proof of their respect!Hoa wasn't the only character with tragically misplaced priorities. Nassun, when deliberating whether to fix the world or destroy it, remembered the day when she came home to find that her father had murdered her brother. For three paragraphs she remembered in hideous detail her baby brother's broken, bleeding body. She remembered what a sweet boy he was, and how she made him laugh and she finally concluded: 'I wouldn't fix it, Schaffa. I wouldn't, I'm sorry, I don't want to fix it. I want to kill everybody that hates me!'I was genuinely shocked at this. What kind of hideous narcissist is so self-centred that she remembers a murdered child and rages that they world hates her instead of him? Or even us! She could have wept for her brother, or for orogenes everywhere, but instead she wept only for herself.Minor slips of the tongue that reveal the unpleasant nature of the characters are littered through out the book. At one point Essun gave a friend a compliment and thought: 'It's an olive branch. Or maybe just flattery. She doesn't fall for it. People don't fall for olive branches, they accept them. Only a cynic who was trying trick her friend would think of it as falling.Ok, ok, so I realise that I'm nitpicking now, but I came to find these characters so repellent that everything they said seemed to be poisonous. I felt as though this book were a world seen in a mirror that made everything beautiful seem ugly, and everything good seem sordid. It was just too bleak.Not only did I start nit-picking everything the characters said, but I loathed them so much that I diverted my attention to nitpicking the worldbuilding. After waiting for 3 books to wrap up, I can safely say that I don't quite believe the status of the orogenes in this world. They are hated and reviled everywhere, and it's revealed that this is because the Guardians, under the direction of Father Earth, have been spreading the hatred. But the orogenes have proven themselves far too useful. Castrima and Moev are the two of the more successful comms that we see in the book, and they both succeed due to the acceptance of orogenes. Book 3 is even filled with flavour-text about orogenes doing great things and saving towns. It seems like a much more stable equilibrium would be for comms to agree to harbor the orogenes and hide them from the Guardians, and in return the orogenes only use their power lawfully, if they try to hurt anyone with it then they get betrayed to the Guardians.If the stone-eaters could transport people through the earth in large numbers at vast speeds then why on Earth did the people of Castrima have to make that tedious forced march to Rennanis? Hoa could have ferried them all much faster and then they could've got on with the plot.I was holding out for the Season to be explained, but it never was. I know this is fantasy and not SF, but at the same time, I'm pretty sure that if there were a vent in the Earth the size of a continent, spewing so much detritus that it rained ash for two years, then the consequences would be a lot worse than just very ashy and a bit cold. When Mount Tambora erupted in 1815 then 1816 was known as 'The Year without Summer' or 'eighteen-hundred and froze to death'.OK, I'm becoming as petty as the characters in this book, banging on about minor discrepancies. Suffice to say that I'm glad that I read this series, although I've slated it. It had so much promise, so much inventiveness, so many moments of great writing and psychological insight, I only wish that they'd been stitched together better and that there had been somebody to like or something to alleviate the grim monotony of the story.