Update as of February 2023: While I stand by my point that both TOG and TSS are a bit more plodding than book one, I must say that Nassun is kind of everything to me. And I’m not convinced I really understood this as well at 17 as I do now. “I think,” Hoa says slowly, “that if you love someone, you don’t get to choose how they love you back.”You can always check out my reviews of The Fifth Season and The Obelisk Gate, but I’ll give a brief summary of my thoughts: This series won three Hugo awards in a row for a reason. The characters make me feel everything I possibly can. The worldbuilding is incredibly complex but not so convoluted as to be boring. The first book, which is still the best one, is a twisty mess and I adored it. There are reveals everywhere, about the world and the characters and the plot and so much more. The buildup and payoff dynamics are excellent. The thematic core around oppression is fucking awesome and done with an all-black and majority-queer cast.There are two things I will say about this book. First of all, the loss of Alabaster is a loss; I missed him throughout the novel both in investment and in missing the dynamism he brought. Secondly, when I first read this series at seventeen, I read The Stone Sky entirely on audiobook and barely understand the backstory chapters. Though I absolutely adore Robin Miles and want you all to see what a fantastic job she does narrating these books, I don’t think this particular book is the best choice for an audiobook. You will be confused. The Stone Sky once again receives POVs from three characters; Essun, Nassun, and a new narrator who has narrated all along - Hoa. ➽Essun is so mentally strong, so drily sarcastic, and so gorgeously developed. Even in her unlikability - which only amplifies in this book - it is impossible not to root for her. ➽Nassun continues to become more and more of an antihero over time, and this book emphasizes the aspect which has always existed in her - her desperate need to be loved. When She’s also still such a fucking… teenager, and I find it really endearing and deeply sympathetic. She means so much to me. ➽Hoa, meanwhile, allows us to reveal the past of the Stillness. Via the biggest angel of an immortal stone creature I’ve ever had the pleasure of reading about. This series has just been… a really good experience for me. In general. And I love these characters, so much, and I don’t think I could ever really hate a book containing them. So, we have a new narrator who we’ve all been desperately awaiting for a book now, and the characters - especially Nassun - have changed a lot since book two. Which is so awesome. You can really feel the development in them and the conflict within them. But you know what really made this book for me? The conflict around motherhood.I mean, since the beginning, this series has been adamant about how loving someone is not enough for them to know you love them, and drilled into our heads that Essun has not always been the best mother. But I wasn’t expecting… payoff. I was not expecting the degree to which a mother can mistreat her daughter, despite loving her, despite thinking she is doing the right thing, to become the focus. I love that it has become the focus.I can’t believe what a good job this story has done at balancing Nassun and Essun in this conflict, at seeing both their motivations and realizing that neither one is completely wrong or completely right, not really. It is not about which is right, but about whether or not they will be able to break a cycle of generational trauma created by the Earth itself. Now they’ll all know. Every season is the Season for us. The apocalypse that never ends.And then… the ending. It’s just stunning. I love the writing of it - we finally see a powerplay we’ve been building up to for three books. I love the character bit of it - it is utterly gutwrenching. And I love the hope in it, and the sense that even though the world is fucked up, there is always, always hope. If you look hard enough. I'll miss this series. Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | About |