One morning a young man woke up and decided he didn't want to leave his room. He felt at odds with the world and wished he could opt out of his busy life. He knew he was unlikely to get away with skipping school, so he thought about how to find a perfect excuse. His eyes fell upon the half-read copy of Kafka's Metamorphosis he had left beside his bed, and was pleased. When his stressed mum banged on the bedroom door and yelled that it was time for breakfast, shower and school, he answered: "I can't!""What kind of nonsense is that?" yelled his mum."I have been transformed into a giant insect and can't move my arms and legs! I mean my legs and legs!""Ooooohhh please, I don't have time for this stupid game, get out of your room now, and get ready!""You can leave, I'll stay here!"But his mum knew her Kafka well, and was not ready to let go of her eldest son. Vermin or not, he would socialise and be part of the family. And he would go to school."Listen!" she yelled at him. "You live in the wrong place and the wrong time! We care about people here in Sweden, no matter what their personal condition is. If you have a minor insectification problem, so be it. I will write and explain to your teacher that you need certain special education tools, and we can find you a hobby that fits your ability as well.""No! They will bully me.""Oh no! There is a perfectly functional anti-bullying programme at your school, and you have been working on it yourself!""No! I feel weak!""Oh forget it! Fresh air is just the right environment for insects! What kind of bug are you anyway?""Mum!" "Yes, I thought I could send an email to your grandparents, announcing the change!""Mum!""Your siblings have a right to know as well. Shall I go and get one of those nature books, so you can check for yourself?""Mum, you are not going to stay outside my room for the rest of the day, are you? Haven't you got a job to go to?""I'll call in sick to take care of my insect son!""Can't you just leave me alone?""Nope! I'll wait here with an action plan until you open your door and come out! I stick by my children, whatever mess they have gotten themselves into!""Okay, I give up! It is impossible to be an isolated, grumpy, neglected insect these days, with all those over-active parents and student care teams buzzing around like annoying flies!"The young man opened the door, went through his morning rituals, left for school, and did his chores. In the evening, he finished reading Kafka."Maybe it's not so bad to live here and now after all", he said, smiling in a truly Kafkaesque way. The story could be true.