WOW! I cannot believe this is Schwab’s debut! This was, in my opinion, one of her strongest works! I mean, maybe not *quite* Monsters of Verity or Shades of Magic good, but close! It was a stronger book than The Archived, and I liked it better than Vicious.Because wow, this book was spectacular! Everything about it was just wonderful!Let’s do a list of things I liked, shall we? Because I like lists, and also because there was literally nothing I disliked! (Except for the fact that it was so so good, and a fairly short book, and therefore not long enough. Or maybe I’m just mourning the fact that I have now read all of Schwab’s published works (except for the middle grade series about angels that I still can’t quite believe she wrote…)) - The GORGEOUS writing! I mean, it was by Schwab. What did you expect? But still, it’s worth mentioning, because it was AMAZING!!! - I sort of love her writing style. - Okay, maybe more than sort of. - The creepy, atmospheric, amazingness! - This book was sooooo creepy! I finished it late at night, and well. That went well for my sleep. (Not.) - I swear, it was SO creepily written. It gave me shivers, and terrified me out of my wits, but in the very best way. - Seriously. So creepy. Deliciously creepy. And I LOVED THE CREEPINESS OF IT SO MUCH! - The world building! It was unique and eerie and atmospheric, and lovely. - And by lovely I mean the world was terrible, but it was amazingly done. - Because that’s what lovely means, right? - The CHARACTERS!! - I sort of adored Lexi. She wasn’t necessarily the *most* unique YA heroine out there, but she was likeable, and she was memorable. - Lexi was a bit of a rebel. She didn’t like being told not to do something, and so she had a tendency to do it anyways. She was bright and fun, and a caring older sister. - Cole was also awesome. He was a sweetie with a tragic past (which, let’s face it, is a wayyyy better trope than a bad boy with a tragic past), and I adored him. He was sweet. He was really, really sweet. But he also had a lot to him. His backstory was super sad, and also really interesting! - I loved Cole. A lot. - Like, a lot a lot. - Wren was adorable. Seriously, she was SUCH a sweet, hilarious child. She was a very no-nonsense five year old, who couldn’t be tricked by silly stories. - She was the absolute cutest. - And the sibling relationship was beautiful! - Then there was the romance. - Okay, I have to say, it was SO insta-lovey. Ridiculously insta-lovey. - But you know what? I don’t care. The romance was sweet and cute and I shipped it REALLY HARD.AHHHHHHHHHHH!!! There’s so much I’m missing, but OH MY GOSH, I JUST LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH!!! You should DEFINITELY go read it! Right away. Just don’t be dumb like me and read it late at night.***Initial reaction, July 11, 2018***It is midnight. I am incredibly creeped out. I'm not going to be able to sleep for hours. It was worth it. RTC.