Addicting and vicious, The Last Graduate proved to be much more than just another magical school story. It can be a hit or miss because of the writing style, which is different from the usual YA. I would say this book is in between YA and NA territories. I also enjoyed every minute reading it.The Last Graduate picks up from the same second Deadly Education had ended. The story continues with no time passing in between, after all, school starts right after induction. There are no breaks in the Schoolomance. The stakes in this book are much higher and what starts as alliance planning for graduation, evolves to be well, suffice to say on a much grander scale than that. I've been having a problem lately. I'm not in a slump but also books that make me avoid doing anything else, even scrolling through that cancerous Instagram explore, are rare. I didn't want anyone to talk to me while I was reading this book nor any distractions whatsoever, it was that gripping. Let's start by addressing the pink elephant in the room. We all know the backlash Novik got from the Last Graduate. Many tried defending her and saying there was no racism or unfair remarks but I digress.. There were lots of stereotypes and unacceptable comments. Novik acknowledged her error and I believe in second chances. While it wasn't enough for me to change my rating of the first book, I also wanted to give this book a second chance. Naomi Novik made most of it.Instead of focusing on the differences between cultures and traditions, she tackled a very important and prevalent subject in all societies: privilege. If you've read the first book, you already know that enclave kids always have considerably higher chances of surviving and graduating first and later on in life. They have their future guaranteed after school just because they were born into the right family. They are better prepared as freshmen and always get better supplies from the seniors. They stick together. Were they from the New York enclave, Shanghai, London, or any other enclave across the world, they all help each other within their respective enclaves. Most students would do anything to secure a seat after graduating in an enclave especially the top ones. But the losers, the nobodies, have to secure alliances and work harder in everything, was it at studying or simply gathering mana. This book focused a lot more on this theme and I believe Novik did a good job exploring the relationships between enclave kids and everyone else, how they are so used to get it's difficult for them to give but also, that doesn't mean they all are bad. Not at all.I don't pretend to understand how every spell worked because I was too busy turning the page to know what happens next. The book was a page-turner and could be easily read in one or two sittings. Sure, we didn't have a lot happening all the time but the way Naomi wrote this book makes it fast-paced. They were few dull moments and instead, I wanted to know what plan they'll come with and how that will turn out.I also liked El in this book, her character witnessed a considerable development since book 1. She had built a thick shell around being a loner all those years but now finally, she's trying to let people in. Or at least accept their friendships. As for the romance, I honestly didn't see it coming in book 1. I had no idea Orion was the love interest until late into the book. I loved their relationship in the Last Graduate and how it progressed. They make a good couple and Orion (I just wish he had a different name) is such a sweet and selfless person. We discover more about him as a person in this book because Novik is evil, let me leave it at that. Do we have sexual content? This isn't a spoiler for the book but only for this point we had a somewhat explicit sex scene, not naming of body parts and such but it was definitely more explicit than the usual ones in YA. I personally didn't mind it at all, I found it well done but PG13.I'll end by saying that this trilogy is proving to be highly entertaining. This book was definitely the best YA release I've read in a while and that was published after 2018. Magic schools aren't the most innovative plotlines but I love them anyway. In this case, Novik took it and made it her own. It's pretty different from your average book in this genre and totally worth a read.