My initial thoughts right after finishing The Last Graduate:


**This review contains mild spoilers!**

In this installment of The Scholomance we are thrown back right into the chaos of El, Orion, and other kids facing their senior year. A lot has changed since the previous year. New alliances are built, old ones are destroyed, and the school's mechanism is silently turning, counting the last days.To say this book was a rollercoaster is to say nothing! As usual when you dive into this series, you are thrown right into a massive info dump. El is a great and snarky narrator but sometimes it is sooo very hard to grasp all the things she's talking about. I think it's the biggest minus of this series: we are given too much information and don't have enough brain capacity to process it. I suppose we could compare the info dump to an attack of a horde of mals. El and Orion are two cherries on top of the cake story. I adored their interactions in the previous book but here it progressed 1000000000000 times and I tell 'ya people, this is how a slow-burn romance should be done!“You're the only right thing I've ever wanted.” What I really love about Scholamance is the character development! And not just of the main characters but all of them, even the ones we just met one time. All because we see them through El's eyes, and El has grown as a character a lot. From an absolutely selfish person, she turned into a hero. There was one scene with El and Aadhya - a sisterly bonding. I wept when I read it; it was sincere and heartfelt.The Last Graduate teaches us about compassion, friendship, and loyalty. The Scholomance is turned out to have a kind of a mechanical heart, which was so sweet to observe, especially when it was giving El hints of what it truly wanted. My heart melted at that  I hope the school will survive as well; don't what it to vanish inside the void.Now, can we please talk about that ending?! Seriously, you can't finish every installment of this series like that! It's torture not knowing what happened! Agh! I finished the book late at night and couldn't sleep afterward because I kept scrolling the last scene in my head  Orion, you stupidly adorable cinnamon roll, what have you done! You better not part ways with El like that and then go and die!. I have a very strong feeling we are getting closer to the meaning of the shocker message that ending the first book. We are definitely going to see El's darker side in the next book. But honestly, I literally can't wait. I haven't been that excited about a book, let me think.... ah, yeah, since the ending of A Deadly Education! So, Naomi Novik, you better not make me wait for long...