Check out my new youtube channel where I show my instant reactions to reading fantasy books seconds after I finish the book.
3.5 stars. The weakest book in this series thus far, but ends on a promising noteUnfortunately, I thought this book was a rather significant step down from the previous two entries in this series - and while I ultimately did enjoy my time reading it, I did have several large problems with the way it was written.I still do love this world that has been created. It feels very well fleshed out, and I believe I will keep this world in my mind for many years to come. The plot is engaging, and I am invested in the success (or demise) of many of the characters. There are also well done twists that keep me on my toes on a relatively constant basis.Andross Guile remains the star of this book for me. I hate him, and I love him. I haven't actually read a "bad guy" in a book that has been written as well as he has since The First Law introduced Glokta - both characters that you almost end up cheering in spite of their horrible nature due to how well they are written. Every scene that has Andross in it is instantly amplified with my interest, and I wish he were in all of them.I thought the ending set piece to be the best one yet, with the last ~50-75 pages of this book being the best part of the book, especially the last few pages that introduce a wonderful plot twist that I genuinely should have seen coming, but thankfully didn't.Unfortunately I find the magic system to be getting too convoluted. Initially it has the colors of the rainbow as the central feature of the magic system, with each color allowing characters who have that power to do special unique things, as well as causing the characters to have certain emotions while they are using the magic. But later on they start introducing more colors, seemingly just for the sake off adding them, like White, Black, Subred, Peryl (whatever that is) - and then adding strange magical things like seed crystals. It feels complicated intentionally, and it doesn't benefit the story.I find many of the Battles poorly written and not important. It reminds me of an action movie where nothing suspenseful has happened in a while, so they randomly throw in an action sequence that has no bearing on the plot just to keep the viewer interested. I don't need that in a book, and it would do better just leaving them out.I also thought the Gavin plot took far too long to get moving in this book, as he didn't have any sort of development until over 1/3 into the book. In general, I just do not really know where this plot is going, and not in a good way. It feels like every book it takes a new direction, and I end up feeling that this book series would have been better as a trilogy that could keep the plot tighter.Luckily, the ending of the book did leave me excited to continue on with this series, but I do so with more hesitation than I previously had.