*** 5+ ***The BB&B BR with Eon & Sarah is still going strong! When I love a book or series this much, I tend to suck at reviewing it! After all, what can I start talking about first? And how can I say anything without giving it away?? And how can I do it any justice??? As You see, this will be another one of those where I have lost all sense of objectivity and have become all emotion and fangirling... Maybe it is a good way to tell you - i love this book and series, and the only way I know how to express my feelings is by encouraging one and all to go, get it, and read it!!! The world is complex, the magic system innovative, the mythology layered and deep, the characters - fan-freaking-tastic!!! The whole package is a work of art and adventure, wrapped up in chocolate and ice-cream, and served with a fine wine!!! Need I say more? Go get it!!! 
"... “To hold fealty to your own and to call it a high virtue is ludicrous. Even animals protect their own. It is a good, but it is a common good, an easy one. It’s a miser who says he grows rich not for himself, but for his children. His vice is not thus magically made virtue.” ...
The Clan of Guile is getting more and more interesting, lead by the most devious megalomaniac Andross Guile, who is about to start pulling the strings of the new generation of Guiles, but maybe this time he has bitten more than he can chew... Karris is as wonderful as she is complex, full of warring feelings of guilt, shame, love and faith in the better good... Gavin is broken... Broken, and although he keeps on fighting, is there going to be a point when he will give all up and wallow in defeat?? Teia is amazing! The ex-slave is learning and fighting to find her place as a free person, and she has become one of my favorite characters. Kip is Kip- he really goes through a growth spurt in this book - not only physically, but emotionally as well, and hopefully starts showing the promise of a great man to come... The White is AMAZING, as always. The Black Guard Captain Ironfist is ... well, I would have said the most dependable and loyal friend you could have, but.... Ooohhhhhhh, my heart hurts... Tisis is showing an unexpected vulnerable and real side of her character, which made her grow in my esteem. And I don't even want to mention Viviana - she is lost to sense and logic at this point... I am not sure if i want her to find her way back anymore either... She has disappointed me for the last time... 
"... “Don’t judge a man by what he says his ideals are, judge him by what he does. Look at what the Color Prince has done. They’re wrong, Teia. They’re liars and murderers. It doesn’t mean everything we do is right. It doesn’t mean our house doesn’t need a thorough cleaning. I just don’t think we need to burn it to the ground to do it.” ...
So, this was a book full of emotional and plot roller-coasters and I am soooooooooo ready to get to the next one!!! Once again folks, why have you not read this series yet??? It is very, very entertaining!!! 
"... “I die and go to a library? Sure, it could be worse, but I’ve spent a lot of time in libraries this year. Quite enough time, really. Do I have to stay forever? Where do I go pee?” ...
I wish you all Happy Reading and wondrous Fantastical journeys!!!!