ALL OF THE STARS!"Some say the City of Sin is a game, so before you arrive - ask yourself, dear reader, how much are you prepared to lose?"- The City of Sin, a guidebook: Where To Go and Where Not ToMY GOD, this. This was goooooooooooooood! I am so happy, I've been waiting for this for the such a long time. I really enjoyed Amanda Foody and Daughter of the Burning City, so Ace of Shades was highly anticipated for me. I was so nervous going into this, because every time I desperately want to like something it's normally just okay, but this had me on edge in the best possible way.The world building and detail was so beautifully done, it was picturesque and because of all of the little details you can picture it so clearly, it honestly felt as though I was transported into the book and could see so clearly how everything looked. I loved the feel/vibe of the settings and how everything seemed to resemble a card deck. Some things felt very modern and other elements resembled those in the early 19th century. We got gangs; The Irons, The Doves and The Scarhands, rivalry, magical elements, and not only this... but split elements where they were able to control two different powers. Some were so unique and SO cleverly done, it was honestly enthralling and I wanted... no I needed more. The magic all relates back to the family you were born into, but not only this, we see how certain attributes are shown in their day to day lives. My main example is that Enne is looked down on as she is a Salta and her main talent i dancing.Now as for the romance my god, I am dangling on edge. They want it, I want it. WE ALL WANT IT! It's such a slow burn, and even though this story is told over 10 days, the build up was so deliciously slow. It was just so endearing to see, the comfort that they both offered one another, finally becoming at ease with each other, opening up, becoming like a double team. Always having cookies lying around, ahhhhh! Will they won't they?! I NEED MY SHIP TO SAIL!CharactersShe was the girl who'd come afraid to the city that could smell your fear. She'd faced the witch. She'd poisoned the wolf. She'd strolled into the land of death with her head held high and left it a lord.We have Enne, who back in her hometown is a nobody, no one seems to notice her and she doesn't do things to be noticed. She's at finishing school and is quite polite and on her arrival has a guidebook to tell her what she should and shouldn't do in New Reynes. In this new life she comes across at first to be quite timid but as the days progress we see her become such a strong character, we see her questioning herself and what she's known all her life may not be what it seems. At times we see her look down her nose, but as the story progresses we see a new light to her and because of her journey we see her stepping out of what she thinks she should do, to what she must. I was cheering her on and to see her finally relax a little and accept certain friendships I was shouting in happiness!Then we have Levi my new book love. He is unashamedly bisexual, and if he wants to kiss boys he'll do it, and so what if he has an array of clothes at his disposal from both men and women that he's slept with, I was here for it. Levi is the head of The Irons and we see him in a tricky situation from the very start and working out a way to get out of the mess he has landed in. Even though Levi wants to live up to expectations, we also see a raw and human side of him. My heart just cannot take it. He cares so much about his gang, and hates what he has to do with his current situation, he notices things and sometimes takes things to heart which I mean... I melted at. Even though he is The Iron Lord we see his vulnerabilites and how he actually has feelings and is actually scared of certain events to come.Finally we have Jac and Lola... please give me more! These two are both loyal to certain people, not only this, but they both have heartbreaking back stories. When we first meet Lola, I wasn't instantly amazed by her, I was like nope. Then everything changed and I was like, yep this girl. Please stay! Then we have Jac who is ridiculously loyal and HIS talent, my god when something happens and he offered... ahhhh I can't! Hopefully we may see POV from these two in future books.What I liked?- The magic system was just so interesting, literally in the first few chapters we see someone trapped on a street because they owe a debt!- The lies and deceit, at times you don't know who to trust and what to expect- THE CARDS AND THE BALCK AND WHITE DOORS!- Unbreakable oaths- In relation to the gangs, we got to see what each of these bring to The City of Sin and what each person represents. It was interesting to see what mark they had. It wasn't just like here they are and you were expected to fear them, it went into some detail as to who they were and what they did. We got to see the leaders of them and see them work against or with each other in certain times- I loved Reymond, he was just so protective and it was nice to see a father figure- The guidebook- The countdown of the days, and it telling us something new.- Zulas talent- The friendships! You can see friendships cementing and I honestly just need more.- THAT ENDING, it cannot end there... I need answers, and I need to know what is happening!What I didn't like?- I wish we'd seen more of other characters. I think mainly Viance, she's quite powerful so it would of been interesting to see her more, not only this but other characters could of been used more to get more of a backstory in certain aspects of the book- So something was unravelled... but HOW?!Overall I adored this book! I don't even know when the next one is out... but it's a TRILOGY! I could cry happy tears. I have a new book love, I have new fictional friends that I want to be part of, I loved the story and I just need more!2019... y u so far away?