This is a slick, booksmart, subversive Sleeping Beauty that I polished off in a couple hours. Then I spent the next 24 pondering why I didn't like it more, especially considering that a) I once considered getting an MA in fairy tales and folklore, b) Alix Harrow has clearly read many of the same books I have, and c) she pens some lovely lines and observes some astute details.A Spindle Splintered lies somewhere between Sleeping Beauty, portal fantasy, and...Lurlene McDaniel (what, you didn't spend your preteens reading about kids with terminal diseases?). Our heroine is Zinnia Gray, the victim of a teratogenic pollutant that has left her with progressive amyloidosis, which causes protein plaques to form in her tissues and which no one has lived beyond age 22 with. On her 21st birthday, Zinnia, slightly drunk on shitty beer and self-pity, stabs her finger on a secondhand spinning wheel bought for a Sleeping Beauty themed party. Unexpectedly, the result is not tetanus but transportation to a fairy tale world with another cursed princess in it.Cue lots of opportunities to rewrite stories, examine the meaning of curses, save princesses, seize the day, and celebrate friendships and family. Uh, yeah. I think I've just figured out why this book isn't my thing. There's some interesting feminist commentary embedded in the story, but it doesn't go much beyond this level:I wish briefly but passionately that I'd been zapped into a different storyline, maybe one of those '90s girl power fairy tale retellings with a rebellious princess who wears trousers and hates sewing. (I know they promoted a reductive vision of women's agency that privileged traditionally male-coded forms of power, but let's not pretend girls with swords don't get shit done.)The writing is allusive in a slightly self-conscious way, name-dropping everything from Robin McKinley to Gormenghast to Pixar ("Dad is the established crier of the family - he was asked to "get a grip or leave the theater" during the last twenty minutes of Coco"). I like some of the details, while the flippant-dying-girl narration is distinctly grating. Two other quibbles: dying is not a character trait, but it passes for one in Zinnia, who doesn't otherwise have much in the way of personality. And the idea that cell phones would work across universes may be the most fantastical thing I've read in ages, and I read primarily speculative fiction. But hey, it's short. You may like it better than I did. 2.5 stars, rounded up because I feel bad for being grumpy about something that clearly has the best intentions in mind.