Now a Goodreads Choice nominee in Fantasy!Recently someone told me they’re “tired of retellings”, which I cannot at all relate to. Every time I feel myself approaching that thought I see another fairytale retelling advertised somewhere and I’m like “Ooooh?!?!!???”, immediately falling down a new rabbit hole.But if you feel this way, even though you are wrong, I can understand where that feeling comes from. Sometimes you see your millionth YA Fantasy Beauty and the Beast retelling and it’s like OH MY GOD, ENOUGH. But what I think separates the good ones, like A Spindle Splintered from the ones that make me want to walk into the ocean, like the Camila Cabello adaptation of Cinderella, are one of two things. Either the fairytale is a less prominent one, like Little Thieves’ take on The Goose Girl, or it significantly challenges the source material while also honoring the important pieces of it.And while you could definitely argue that though Sleeping Beauty is a famous princess, she’s not usually the most enticing one for authors to emulate, I think Alix Harrow’s novella A Spindle Splintered falls more in the second category than the first. Zinnia Gray, a girl with a degenerative illness, is Harrow’s take on the titular character from the original fable. After pricking her finger on a spinning wheel, Zinnia falls through a sort of fantastical princess multi-verse and ends up crashing into someone else’s story. Desperate to escape her own looming ending, Zinnia tries to save another Beauty as a last ditch effort to also save herself.This is a novella, and around one third the size of a full-length fantasy novel. For me, this was perfect for the story being told here. Anything more could have easily turned into a big bloated mess, unnecessarily adding filler in order to reach some arbitrary page quota. Instead, what we got was a funny, emotional and sharp examination of a classic fairytale that has traditionally symbolized the lack of agency for female characters in their own stories. Instead of allowing the pieces on the board to move around her, Zinnia seizes her fate and bends it to her own will, and I loved every minute of it.I’m sure there’s some people who think anything that diverges from the ‘traditional’ telling they’re used to is a kind of bastardization of the story. This is ridiculous for a number of reasons, not least of all because there is no true original versions. Humans have twisted our stories to accommodate the times we live in since we first started telling them, and your own personal, rose-colored nostalgic interpretation is not inherently correct. The idea of an innumerable amount of renderings of Sleeping Beauty and other princess stories is brought up in Spindle, with the opening to introduce even more into this literary universe. And I am so excited to see what tale Alix Harrow spins for us next.