Short Review:This is a Patrick Ness book––so, of course it's good. It's very different from his other books, but I like that he writes something new and I never know what to expect. I wasn't as blown away by it as I was by the Chaos Walking trilogy, A Monster Calls, or More Than This, but it's still great––intriguing concept, good writing and characters, a fun and emotional story. There's kind of a "Manic Pixie Dream Girl" plotline that is mainly the thing that took away from the book for me, but otherwise I really enjoyed it!Full Review:~coming eventually~-----------Before Reading:7/7/15:So I got a mysterious package in the mail yesterday, and GUESS WHAT IT WAS?!?!?!?!?!*high-pitched screaming*My friend got her hands on an ARC and she sent it to me!!! BUT WAIT, THERE'S MORE.IT'S SIIIIIGNED. Sorry my iPod takes such crappy/grainy photos, but it says "to Brigid, in absentia, from Marietta" (Marietta is my friend's name. :D) So yeah omg I'm so excited to read it. A;KD;SJF;SDJFJ!!!-----------5/5/15:OH MAN I hadn't seen the cover before! When did that come out? Well, it's awesome. I love it. Also it has a release date. August 27th. YESSSS. (That's probably the UK release date, though ... but I will get my hands on a copy of it somehow. I WILL.)----------10/22/14:WAIT, WHY THE HELL DIDN'T I KNOW ABOUT THIS UNTIL NOW? OH MY GOD.“Not everyone has to be the Chosen One. Not everyone has to be the guy who saves the world. Most people just have to live their lives the best they can … All the while knowing that the world makes no sense but trying to find a way to be happy anyway.”WHAAAAAAAAAAAT?“What if you lived in a world a lot like a YA novel? Where people you know have already battled vampires and zombies and soul-eating ghosts and whatever this new thing turns out to be? What if you just want to go to prom and graduate before someone goes and blows up the high school again?“I wanted to write a novel for anyone trying to live a normal life in a world gone mad, for anyone who actually has bigger problems than the end of the world (again), for anyone who needs to find out that there are many different kinds of extraordinary.”WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAT?I NEED IT. I NEED IT NOWWWWWWW. Source