AT LAST I SEE THE LIGHT!Allow me to finally applaud you, George R.R. Martin without apprehension or dissatisfaction, without a hint of weariness or disappointment. Allow me to finally pass beyond the "I want to love it, but I don't" into "I was swept away by fire and ice and I ascend now as a different woman". My favourite things about this book:1) Jon Snow's every move (the light of my heart)2) Jaime's journey to discover morals, honor and true loveNow, I can't tell you what it was about this installment that finally did it. I have absolutely no clue why I have found the past three books so tedious to get through while this one passed by as easy as breathing. That most of the current plot lines culminated, crashed and made way for new ones was definitely a major influence. A Game of Thrones would have been brilliant if I hadn't watched the show first, but it suffered a bit from too many character introductions and too little happening. A Clash of Kings was chaos and confusion and a shitload of pain. A Storm of Swords pt. 1 was no better, but with nothing happening for the first 300 pages and some of the chaos bleeding through from ACoK it wasn't exactly thrilling, it was mostly just a mess of characters and plots and whatnot. This, however, this is the book I've been waiting for. This is the reason I persisted and struggled through the others. This is where I finally come face to face with the greatness that you've all been babbling about, but that I had yet to see. This is in many ways the conclusion to the events that followed the execution of Ned Stark, which makes it a more pleasant read, because instead of throwing us more plotlines again and again and again, it actually explains some of it. It doesn't whirl the characters about, and throws them into rocks with sand in their eyes, it manages to ground them a bit instead.(When I say "pleasant" I, of course, don't mean to imply it will not cause you emotional pain and take a few stabs at your soul.)Still, those who have to die, die (and there aren't exactly few), those who don't, grieve and survive. And through it they all seem to find their feet a little better in this new world, even with the scales shifting and the balance thrown. They've gone from being lost creatures to having some resemblance of purpose - and just like the characters, the story has also grown and matured.I still don't give much of a damn about Dany - and a few of the other characters, shh -, she's a great character and all, but until I am told what purpose she serves for the story, I'm gonna continue not giving a damn. I can't help it, she's over there, everyone else is over here and I won't care until her dragons are huge and can carry her across the sea.Let's see if this experience will repeat itself with the next books or if I have to wait three books again. Oh well, if I have to, I will.