"I love you, you see -- and I fear I have no way to say or show it that isn't terrible, except coming here. I would kill everyone in the world for you, if you wanted."*Sighs*Here I am, defending a book I probably shouldn't have even given a chance. There are a lot of things wrong with this book. Not wrong, necessarily, but a lot of things that I should probably hate about this book. Instead, I find myself brimming with absolute adoration for everything in The Coldest Girl in Coldtown.Firstly, the main reason why I should hate this book is because of its insta-love romance. I think this is becoming extremely problematic, because I find myself making excuses for certain books nowadays, such as Caraval, and now this one. My biggest fear is that I'm going to start appreciating the flaws of insta-love, which I used to hate with every fiber of my being. However, I am making another exception, because there's no way I'm going to talk shit about Tana and Gavriel.In case you have no idea what this book is about, it's about vampires that are part of the world the MC lives in, at the top of the food chain. You get bitten by a vampire? You're infected. You're infected? You go to Coldtown. There are a lot of people -- humans, to be exact -- who purposely venture off to Coldtown (where most of the vampires are) because they want to either A) serve as a blood donor to get constantly bitten by the vamps or B) they want to become a vampire themselves, because they think it would be cool. I'm not judging, but they sound like fucking idiots, don't they? (Just wait til you meet Midnight. She'll make you want to impale a bitch.)This book is about vampires, and it crossed my mind plenty of times as another warning sign. After my one encounter with the Twilight series, I vowed to myself that I would stay away from vampiry shit for a good long while. It just wasn't worth my time. But then...but then this book showed up, and it was by The Holly Black, and I was like, hey you know what, fuck this shit, Black is a queen, so let's give it a chance. *me, tearing up*Holly Black did not disappoint, y'all.This book was an entire adventure. Following the beginning scene with Tana waking up at a party with everyone dead, and then her literally saving two vampires from a farmhouse and bringing them with her to her Coldtown. I felt like I was there with them the entire time, and it wasn't at all a struggle for me to understand what the characters were going through.The book ended way too quickly. I wanted more. The ending was absolutely perfect, and satisfying, and just a mix of everything I needed from it. It wasn't at all rushed, which I sometimes feel when I'm nearing the end of a book. It was a wonderful, smooth transition from point Y to Z. I'm in love with the ending, and I would love a sequel. I demand one. However, I do wish the story had been a little bit longer, just so I could follow my moons Gavriel and Tana and watch where their lives led. I also wish Gavriel and Tana had gotten more moments to themselves. But the plot, the storyline, and the characters were all beautiful. The story was an adventurous ride.Holy mother of the lord. Gavriel is the most ruthless, scariest, baddest, most cunning murderer in the entire city, and I just want to cuddle him and hold him close to my chest and make sure that the world never hurts him again. I want to caress him and kiss him and love him and be with him forever. I would literally give up my mortality for him. The whole situation with Gavriel is so terribly ironic because he's basically the villain, yet I love him so much and he can never be wounded. I would hurt a bitch that tried to touch him.The only flaw about this book that I have is Tana, the MC. She was all right, and I genuinely liked her, but I didn't love her and I certainly wouldn't die for her. I would die for Gavriel, because he's proven himself to me that he's worth it, but I didn't feel like I'd be balling my eyes out if she died or anything. Don't get me wrong: she's a totally unique character and I genuinely do love her, it's just that I love to hurt over the characters I love, and what I mean by that is I love to love them so much that it hurts my mind and my heart and my soul because I want to be with them and protect them so bad. And although I didn't feel any of that emotion for her, she's still a great character and one not to be overlooked.Overall, The Coldest Girl in Coldtown is a must, must, must-read. I'm not quite sure what compelled me to pick up this book, but whatever it was, I'm glad I did. The plot was amazing, the characters were all extremely cunning, especially Gavriel, my husband, and the setting, Coldtown, was absolutely riveting and made me want to go there. This is one of those books you have to read at least once.