When I saw the premise for this story..A female anti-hero retelling of Vlad the Impaler..in a sort of Game of Thorns vibe..I was all set to start handing out some stars.The book starts with Lada (Ladislav-but she will punch you in the face for calling her that) and her brother Radu growing up in Wallachia. Lada wants to impress her father Vlad so that she can prove that even though born female she is a force to be reckoned with. And she is.. Occasionally she informed her tutors when a torture method appeared to be less effective than others. They ground their teeth and whispered that she had no soul.Her brother is the complete opposite of Lada, Radu is handsome and meek. Sensitive to a fault. He gets beat up a ton except for the times that Lada uses her fists to get him out of a jam. She tells him that no one will kill him but her. Their father Vlad is a spineless turd and he puts the kids off on the Ottoman empire. Their lives are at stake if he does not keep his treaty bargains. Lada HATES it there. They later try to marry her off and that works out just great...Lada spoke with a quiet, clear voice, and the room hushed in surprise. No one expected a gril to speak. she was probably not allowed to. Radu knew Lada would not care either way. "On our wedding night," she said, "I will cut out your tongue and swallow it. Then both tongues that spoke our marriage vows will belong to me, and I will be wed only to myself. You will most likely choke to death on your own blood, which will be unfortunate, but I will be both husband and wife and therefore not a widow to be pitied."That really works out well...then the Sultan's son Mehmed meets Lada and Radu and wants to be their friends. Lada huffed, exasperated. "Very well. What exactly does a friend do?""I have never had one. I was hoping you would know.""Then you are even more stupid than you look. Radu is the one who makes friends. I am the one who makes people want to whip me."See what an awesome character that Lada is?The first part of this book had me all fangirly and then around 50% I started to lose interest. Mehmed started to get on my nerves..I mean grinding hard on my nerves.Both Lada and Radu were both all in lust/love/some shit with him. I really thought he knew of both their feelings and played it to his advantage. Radu is the one who had true feelings for the idiot and he saw Lada and Mehmed all smooching and it crushed him. Bleck. The politics kind of took over the story and I'm sorry but that stuff was boring and went on way too long. This book is a chunker and it felt like words were just getting added and repeated over and over again. Mehmed's character just wasn't strong enough for me to want him to be Sultan. I kept hoping that either Lada would come to her senses or some assassin would finally really act like Game of Thrones on his stupid ass. I'm going with 2.5 stars rounded up to three..just because I want to have hope for Lada's character.Booksource: Netgalley in exchange for review.My friend Hershey and I kinda had an unofficial buddy read with this book. Her review for it is freaking awesome.