Why, oh why, oh why, OH FUCKING WHY do English-speaking authors insist on using Slavic names, which they obviously keep fucking misusing????? Can anyoone please explain to me in a layman's terms what so chic or risque can there be about using names you don't know how to use? Have the editors gone extinct? Is there some grand conspiracy to keep me properly irritated? Why the blazing fads can they not get into their obviously thicker than average heads that a boy would be called Vladislav, Alexander, Valentin, Svyatoslav, Miloslav, Radmil (if you want to get really fancy with names) ..., while a girl would be called Vladislava, Alexandra, Valentina, Svyatoslava, Miloslava, Radmila ... Do you not understand that it is maddening to read a book, where a girl gets called 'Ladislav', time and again???????? Another thing, if a girl was called in honor of Vladislav, she should have been called for short Vlada not Lada. And the long version would have been much more likely Vladislava than Ladislava. A girl could have been called Ladislava or Lada had she been named to the honor of an ancient pre-Christian Slavic pagan goddess of female beauty and love, Lada! I repeat, the name Lada is not derived from Vlada, it was an extremely old pagan name... Even the root words are different: Lada is from 'lad' and Vlad is from 'vlad'. We are not being graced by the presence of Professor Snape, we do not need to chop word roots!In Slavic languages it's rare to chop a single consonant on the beginning of a name to get it shorter. It's not English, for Cristsakes! In most cases Slavic (as well as many used in Slavic countries names of Greek, Aramaic or Roman origins) names get shortened from the end not from the beginning: Olga becomes Olya, Mariya - Masha, Valentina - Valya, Alevtina - Alya, Glafira - Glafa, Natalya - Nata or Natasha, Lyudmila - Lyuda or (rarer) Mila, Lyubov - Lyuba, Sofiya - Sofa or Sofochka or Sofiushka or even Sophie (with Francais-like accent), Zinaida - Zina (not In(n)a or Ida, those would be different names!), even Serafima would become either Sera or Fima, just like Margarita would become either Rita or Margo (not Garita!). Basically, all 1-letter beginning choppings that I can think of involve: Elizaveta - Liza, Elena - Lena, Anastasiya - Nastya, - and it's always a vowel dropped off, not a consonant. You don't make a Ristina out of Kristina! Klavdiya becomes a Klava not Lavdiya! And Svyatoslava never would become a Vyatoslava! If this feels too difficult why even bother using the oh-so-impossible-to-use-correctly names of Slavic origins? Or why not call by them only male characters? The history? It's taking a walk or maybe a flying leap (from the nearest bridge, it seems) in a bid to get rid of writers in paroxisms of flying fantasy. What's important is it's absent from this book. It has taken a giant vacation from this plot. Farewell. No point in getting offended or not offended or researching Vlad Țepeș or the Ottoman empire or whatever... The names are mostly placeholders. The plot could have happened almost anywhere where women had social issues. Which is almost everywhere. The characters? I don't know why they were supposed to have bothered to live. I don't know how many dymentional they were but most of them definitely were missing personality pieces. For one thing, it's cool to see a girl character strong enough to chew steel (not literally but then... no one gave her this chance...), ramrod straight (both in body and in her wonderfully social skills), calculating, greedy (my Wallachia!!!), supposedly people-loving (even though this never brought any of them any good, from what I read). For another, she was bullying bullies not to bully her brother, simultaneously bullying the said 'weak' brother into outbullying the bullies. It's a mess... An entertaining one. But nevertheless messy. I like strong characters. This is beyond a strong character. This a Terminator in the throes of android rage on parade. (How do you go about attacking 2 soldiers with 1 knife and 1 sidekick?)Why Dracula? Bram Stoker might have bit someone. The book had some cool quotes and the character of our transvestitenamed heroine was sort of unusual but I was too irritated to bother. I will add some of those quotes soon, I think.