The Little Prince is the one book of my childhood that truly wrecked me. Wrecked me, irrevocably.It is the one story that I swore I'd never read again.I didn't. I hadn't. I never read it to my son, either.Then, last week, my middle child, my oldest daughter, discovered the 2015 film of it, and came to me, sobbing, and said, “Mommy, you've just got to watch this movie. It's so beautiful.”I did. I watched it. It was a good movie, but, as usual, they added parts, they took away parts, they created violence where it wasn't necessary, etc. So, purist that I am, I marched into the library, checked out the book and told my girls, “If you're going to know a story, then learn the original version.”My hands were shaking this weekend, as I cracked the cover to read it, and the first thing I did was read the backflap, where I was reminded that the author himself went missing a year after the book was published in 1943. I immediately pictured Antoine De Saint-Exupery in his little airplane, crashing somewhere, alone, in the Mediterranean Sea. Pretty disturbing, if you know the premise of this fictional story. The tears started early.I don't know what it is about these desert stories, but they wreck me, every time. I have never cried harder than after watching Ralph Fiennes in that red airplane, flying over the desert in The English Patient, or after meeting Claudia, in Moon Tiger, and realizing what she has lost, what she will never find again, in those desert sands.The desert seems to magnify desolation, naturally, by its isolation. It can be a setting for great reflection, great stories, and even greater loss. And, it is here in this desert setting that our crashed pilot meets the little prince, whose life experiences illuminate almost every important lesson we could learn in a lifetime.Of course I was crying again, but in a good way. I could just sit here, adding quote after quote from this book on this review. I could advise all men that everything they need to know about women is available to them in the passages between the little prince and the rose. I could advise all parents of young children that this is one of those rare books that reminds you how precious and fleeting your time is with your kids.But, “language is the source of misunderstandings,” and I'd be better served to invite you to crash in the desert yourself. See if the little prince shows up to speak to you. See what he has to say.