Since quantum physics (or a vague conception of it :-)) entered popular consciousness, alternate worlds have become a staple of science fiction; but the burgeoning of alternate worlds in which magic works has become a parallel movement in the fantasy genre. Judging by this first installment, Card's Tales of Alvin Maker series is a strong contribution to the latter.Set in 1800-1810 in what would be, in our world, the Ohio and Indiana frontier, this novel describes the birth, and significant times in the young childhood, of Alvin Miller, the uniquely gifted seventh son of a seventh son, born into a frontier America in which the folk magic of our world's old superstitions actually works and plays a significant part in people's lives. But this isn't the only difference between this world and ours. Here, Oliver Cromwell lived to be 97, so England's Puritan Commonwealth never fell, while the exiled Stuarts emigrated to the Southern colonies and maintained their rule there. While the Puritans in England were able to keep their grip on New England (largely populated by their co-religionists), neither English group could dislodge the Dutch and the Swedes, or the French, from the New World --so Alvin's America is a much more polyglot and decentralized place than the real one. Canada is still a French colony here, and France is still a monarchy; there was no French Revolution, because there was no bloody American Revolution to inspire it. Instead, Ben Franklin was able to parlay the intrigues of the two English governments for influence in the middle colonies into acceptance of the peaceful formation of an independent United States as a buffer, made up of the seaboard lands between Virginia and New England and uniting the former English, Dutch and Swedish colonies --and with the Iroquois territory admitted as an Indian-ruled state. The American Compact excludes slavery, provides for religious freedom and democracy, and models an ethnic harmony that the one in our world didn't quite achieve --so Card is here depicting an America that might have been, as a model and inducement for a real one that could be.The author's cosmology is as original as his alternate history. The universe, he posits, has a secret ultimate enemy, the Unmaker; unlike Satan, who only wants to dominate it, the Unmaker wants to annihilate everything that exists. There are similarities here to the premise of Holly Lisle's Minerva Wakes, with its cosmic struggle between the Unweaver and the human Weavers who stand against him; but Card's vision is shaped by a theistic framework. The Unmaker's human opponent is Alvin, born to be a supernaturally-powered Maker; and young Peg, the "torch," or seeress, who assisted at his birth recognizes in his endowments the "hand of power" of God.Religion plays a significant role in the book: an important character is a clergyman, Alvin's home community centers around a church, his mother is a devout woman, and an even more important character is Bill "Taleswapper" Blake --the William Blake of our world, here an immigrant to the New World and an itinerant teller of tales, but as mystically oriented and full of yearning to be a true prophet as his real-world counterpart. Card, of course, is a Mormon, which undoubtedly influences his worldview; some reviewers have seen the series as Mormon propaganda, and it seems clear that Alvin is destined to play a role as pivotal here as Joseph Smith's in our world. But from what I've read so far, it isn't clear that Alvin's religious message will be what we know as Mormonism. The author's portrayal of some of the worst aspects of early 19th-century institutionalized religion, and of the capacity of decent people to be deceived into doing profoundly wrong things in the name of religion, comes through loud and clear; but this is a critique that can also be echoed by evangelicals, and Card's basically equalitarian treatment of women doesn't reflect traditional Mormon sexism.The quality of the writing, the world-building and characterizations here are all top-notch. Card's dialogue and narration are leavened with humor in places (I read the book out loud to my wife, and she frequently laughed aloud at droll exchanges or comments). But there are also plenty of serious, even poignant, moments, and some beautifully lyrical prose in places. The narrative is well-paced and absorbing. All in all, it's a really impressive series beginning! Now, it's on to the second installment, Red Prophet.