Love is an enchantress-- devious and wild.It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.Well goddamn this book took me by surprise. I read and finished this book roughly a week ago. I was so conflicted on how I felt about it, that I couldn't formulate a proper review or even rate it. But now, sitting on these thoughts and how this book made me feel, I don't think I'll ever come to a concrete conclusion. But boy oh fucking boy.This book was so slow, deliberate, and heavy as fuck. Literally suffocating....but in a good way. The atmosphere in this book was so, so real. Very. It felt so real sometimes, that it was kind of unsettling, a bit eerie. And that's what I LOVED about this book. It grabbed me by the throat and force fed me a spoonful of what can only be called as, 'magic'. It's such a weird feeling and the only thing that comes close to this experience of reading this book would be, The Raven Boys. And that feeling, that feeling of being drawn to or by, is what I absolutely love about reading. Reading books that come close to what I felt reading, The Wicked Deep, is somewhat a rare and hidden thing. But time comes when it's happening, is unexpectedly such a beautiful and complete experience. It's like drugs, an addiction, but the good kind. The story itself I think, wasn't even what drew me into the book. I thought it was rather mildly weak and drawn out; nothing much was happening-- a curse that revolves around a town and affecting the people in it-- it was a little disappointing to have something so elaborate to have little repercussions within it. Character wise, everyone was fine, nobody stood out. But maybe Bo. Just Bo. Conflicting, confusing, and irritating, all at the same fucking time, that bitch. I wanted to punch him. Then hug him. Just......UGGGGHH. But my biggest complaint with the book is that I called out the twist very very early on in the book. And my predictions were true. And I didn't want it to be true because I DID NOT WANT IT TO GO IN THAT DIRECTION WHY WHY WHY..........ngh fuck.Well, when good conflicting things come to an end, you just got to move on and say goodbye. But I didn't necessarily want to leave these characters yet. I just wanted to see, wherever they are now, if they're ok. I hope so. Fucking feels. I'm so irritated right now anasdasdlafhasdkfjfs f4 DEEP MOTHER STARSTwitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |