I was initially a bit hesitant going into this book as I had heard some mixed reviews- but I ultimately thought it would be a fun, fast paced, romance heavy fantasy. It was, but unfortunately for some reason it didn’t completely work for me. I was sucked in from the first few chapters. I loved the fantastical aspect, as Korean mythology is something I did not know much about prior to reading this. Learning about the different creatures, their stories and powers was super interesting to me. Additionally, we would periodically get a couple of pages of tales about Gumiho through history, which I loved.“When you’re constantly treated as a pariah, and labeled bad, you might been living up to the expectation”  We learn a bit about Gumiho and Dokkaebi: Goblin like creatures that possess extraordinary powers and abilities used to interact with humans, at times playing tricks on them and at times helping them.(As a side-note, there is a glossary at the back which was very useful to me in learning more about certain Korean words, phrases or customs.) I would love to learn about more creatures in the next book and dive deeper into their histories, motivations and powers. I would also find it interesting to learn whether or not there is an aristocratical or political system that controls the mythological beings to stop them from revealing themselves to humans (think, volturi) I just thought that in such a rich world and culture, there was so much potential that wasn’t fully realised. As for the real life aspects of this, I liked seeing life as a Korean teen in high school. Some things; like mean kids and bullies seem to be universal. It was also interesting to contrast the system I am used to to the Korean one. The writing was well done, especially for a debut novel. I marked a few quotes that I liked, and it overall flowed quite nicely. I liked the characters, and how they subverted some typical fantasy tropes. Miyoung was the powerful, moody, strong one. Jihoon was still an important character, but he was the one who needed saving by Miyoung, and was of a more emotional and gentle nature than her. “He’d wanted to see if she’d taste like rain. He suspected it was more likely she’d taste like lightning.”The relationship dynamics were all very well done. I loved Miyoung’s relationship with her mother. It was complicated and messy- but it was clear that they loved each other. My main issue with this was the pacing. It started off strong. We have the beginnings of a plot, likeable and relatable characters and we are just starting to get sucked into the world. But… It doesn’t last. About halfway through we reach a plot twist and the climax. For the rest of the book it meanders, wallows around and just seemed like it lost the threads it had set up. It felt much too long for not not much happening. Overall, this wasn’t a bad book- I enjoyed the first half quite a bit, I just couldn’t stop thinking about how much better it could have been.