3***“Night and darkness made a believer of everyone.”18 year old Miyoung is not your typical girl, she is part Gumiho- a nine-tailed fox who survives by consuming the gi (energy) of men. However, much to her mothers disappointment, she is also half-human, with empathy and soft spots for some humans. With the help of a local shaman who can see spirits, Miyoung only kills those who commit terrible crimes. Both Miyoung and her Mother hide in plain site, Miyoung attends school in Seoul and tries to keep a low profile. However, one evening she crosses paths with a handsome boy in her class as he's being attacked by a goblin in the woods. She decides to help the boy and reveals herself and her nine-tails- to save Jihoon from certain death. In this encounter, Miyoung loses her fox bead, something which contains her soul, and without it she will die.Both Miyoung and Jihoon are drawn to each other, and as much as Miyoung wants to ignore him, Jihoon is constantly drawn to Miyoung. As a relationship between the two starts to develop, it may be over too soon as Miyoung's efforts at restoring her fox bead sparks an old feud, forcing Miyoung to face some terrible choices with dire consequences.Jihoon is a character who appears at first sight to be quite chilled out. He is lazy and a constant gamer with very little interest in academics or life after school. He is cocky in a lot of scenes and flirtatious with women- especially those who are older than him and are in some authoritative position in his life. However, it is clear from the book that he absolutely loves his Grandma and will do anything for her. Meanwhile, Miyoung is struggling to meet up with her mothers expectations and acting as a full Gumiho- Miyoung is prone to feel guilt and shame- something which her mother views as terrible human emotions.Both characters have experienced severe loneliness and abandonment (however, Miyoung more so). This is a tale of two people finding each other and bringing a bit more hope and love to another's eyes. This also explored what it is like to be human and Miyoung explores this side to her.This book was a great learning experience to learn some of Korean folklore as well as the differences in our cultures (for example, attitudes towards mental health).It would have been 4 stars but in the last 1/4 of the book it seemed that the characters were making consistent bad mistakes and a revelation that seemed a bit too cliche for my liking. I am still curious as to what will happen in the next book.