Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.
This is the greatest book ever written. A masterpiece in every conceivable wayI'm going to break this review down into two parts. A review of this book in particular, and a review of the series as a whole given this is the last book.First -- this book. I cannot get over how perfect this book is, and what Steven Erikson has achieved here. All of the events of the previous books culminated into one insane, glorious, over-the-top ending that will likely never be topped by any book ever. This series is known for having the ending of each book be a "convergence" of all the characters in a spectacular finale -- but this book essentially does that from start to finish. And the last few hundred pages of the book in particular is the biggest, grandest, most epic thing ever written. The very end of the book is also done with perfection, which can very rarely be said for fantasy series. Second -- the series. This book cements for me that Malazan: Book of the Fallen is the best fantasy series ever written. There is not a single book in this series that is anything less than amazing, and did not ever feel needless. That's an incredible feat for a series that is over 7,000 pages long. The events of all the books marches towards a definitive goal, but it did it in a way that feels truly genius. Unlike a series like A Wheel of Time (a series I love), it didn't attempt to explain every single thing and make the conflict these characters are going through feel like the only conflict that is occurring on this world. Malazan gives you the only real sense in fantasy that these events are happening across an entire world -- not in a country or a single continent, or even a couple continents -- but over an entire planet. Not all plot threads have a nice tidy conclusion. You have characters that go off to do their own thing while the events of the book move on without them, as you would expect to happen in a real world. This happens to critical characters where you think, "Wait, what is this book even about?" several times. But you just have to trust the author that he is marching you towards something that is incredible and perfect.If you haven't picked up this series yet, or are feeling overly daunted by the prospect of both something so long, and so complicated. Just give it a try -if you get hooked on this series the payoff is unimaginably glorious.