The ecstasy and agony of Malazan.The first part of this review is a spoiler free review and concluding thoughts about the entire 10 books series Malazan Book of the Fallen (around 12,000 pages or 4M words) with all the praise and criticism that I believe this epic series deserves. After is a brief and spoiler-full review of The Crippled God. For almost everything I loved about the series, there is a diametrically opposed flaw for that exact reason. I’m going to pair what I liked with its opposed weakness. Only very mild spoilers only about how much characters are involved in the series follows. Here we go:Good: The characters are absolutely amazing. Bad: The amazing characters are almost never on stage. I can unfurl a mile long scroll of all of the amazing characters in this series. What makes them amazing is their epic decision-making, origins and the significance of their existence. What I mean is that the main characters have enormous weight to move the story along simply by their words or timely actions. None of the characters however, are really fully fleshed out because the story-telling is too opaque. They are more set-pieces within an immersive setting and are often very inscrutable. I understand it is nearly impossible to have such a sprawling fantasy world and actually flesh out all the main characters (there are probably hundreds of important characters amongst thousands of other characters). But here is the biggest flaw in this series: the amazing main characters get very, very little screen time. In a nutshell, Malazan is a story of epic characters occasionally doing epic things strung together by the connective tissue of ancillary characters having mundane conversations. I’m not exaggerating in the least. The majority of the series are scenes of ancillary characters talking. Why do minor characters like Helian or Withal for example get more screen time than Ganoes Paran or Tattersial? Why don’t we hear from Caladin Brood anymore? Why is half a book dedicated to Karsa Orlong when he only makes cameos in every book thereafter? I’ll be puzzled for the rest of my life that Erikson made these decisions with this story. He emphatically doesn’t give the reader what initially interested them in the series for roughly 70% of each book. It is extremely frustrating. Who exactly did he write this series for? Fans of a bunch of nondescript marines complaining in a trench? I’m not exaggerating: that is a large portion of this series. It’s mind boggling if I think about it too long. So I won’t because I want to like this series. Good: The world building is the most immersive I’ve ever read in fantasy. Bad: The world building never ends and gets in the way of the story telling. Malazan is debatably the most immersive fantasy world I’ve ever read. You can feel, smell, see and experience the world in an almost visceral way. It’s absolutely enchanting to sink into the terrain, continents, peoples, tribes, armies, empires, races, kingdoms and all their arcane lore and relationships. The mystery and lore presented are exciting and entice the reader to keep going. It’s staggering to think that it all came from one writer’s mind. At some points, it was the only thing that kept me going through such a long series. The problem is that the world is so expansive, that just like in real life, you can never cease to describe its details. The problem is that Erikson just keeps going. What I mean by this is by book 9 in Dust of Dreams the world is still expanding with two new kingdoms, new tribes, new enemies, new protagonists, new back story and new conflicts. There is a point where the world building gets so much that it all becomes kind of arbitrary and paradoxically saps the story of its drama. Erikson, unfortunately, reached this point. There is a saturation point that the average reader gets to where your eyes start glazing over. That was book 9 for me. I stopped caring about all the new characters and world that was being thrown at me and I just wanted some resolution. Book 9 was my low point for this series and it irreparably damaged my opinion of the entire series. Good: The writing is phenomenal. Bad: The writing also is almost completely void of exposition. Erikson loves to wrap each and every scene in incredible immersion that the reader can lose themselves in on almost every page. Erikson cares deeply about every scene coming alive and does very, very, little telling in his writing. This is usually a great strength, but for this series it becomes an almost fatal flaw. I can’t tell you how many times an entire scene goes on and on and Erikson hasn’t even provided the identity of who is speaking let alone where the scene is happening or even when it’s happening. I sometimes didn’t even know what continent I was on or even what dimension (warren) the scene was taking place! Through ten books, the reader is dropped into a scene and it could be a god who is talking or a street rat and you’d have no idea. And then even when you do know who the character is, there is no narrative hand-holding to remind you of desperately needed context. A sprawling world and character list like this needs narrative help or else it’s an astronomical amount of work for the reader to keep things straight. There is a three paragraph scene between two main characters in the last book where some basic plot points are summed up and it did wonders to help me understand just what in the hell had been going on for the last 1,000 pages. After I finished The Crippled God I still had many questions so I had to go on Reddit. The answers were combinations of a bunch of speculation from die hard fans saying to read on with the subsequent series and also Erikson saying that the ending is up to the reader’s interpretation. I’m sorry, but all of this together is a big sign that something is deeply wrong with the story crafting. Which there most definitely is. All of this absolutely wears down on you after ten books and can be outright demoralizing to the reader. The lack of exposition does way, way more harm to the reader experience than it does to enhance it. Erikson is needlessly coy with the storytelling and the entire series suffers for it. I’m about to say something that will anger Malazan puritans but let’s get real: this series desperately needs to be abridged. You could cut out around 30-40% of this series and it would be an improvement. All the wonder and mystery of the world wouldn’t seem so arbitrary any more. The stakes would matter more because they would be more present in the reader’s mind. We wouldn’t forget about key characters and we wouldn’t get lost in redundant exchanges and pointless scenes of characters who have little bearing on the plot. So the million dollar question: is this series worth reading? The answer depends on what kind of reader you are. If you only like easy and leisure fantasy, like Sanderson, Gwynne or Harry Potter, given to you in bite-size chunks to enjoy, then you should definitely not even start this series at all. If you’re middle road and enjoy Tolkien, Hobb, Abercrombie, Anthony Ryan, RF Kuang, then you should read up to the first three books of this series to see if it's for you. If you don’t like the third book, Memories of Ice then I think you should DNF the series. If you are a reader who enjoys being challenged, taking notes, or likes constantly looking things up on a Wiki Fandom page and are okay with confusion and uncertainty that can last thousands of pages and millions of words, then you should push through to the end. Am I glad I finished this series? Yes, but seriously by only like 2 or 3 percentage points. This was a very hard series to get through, particularly toward the end. If you want to read this series, you also need to take into account the opportunity loss of reading something else instead of the 12,000 pages of these tomes. The decision is yours. As for me, I am DONE with this series. I won’t be reading anything else from this world or any re-reads. Malazan Book of the Fallen is most certainly not the best fantasy book ever written. It could've been but failed on multiple counts.Final point: I weep for anyone who tries to do a screen adaptation of Malazan. Here’s my obligatory ranking of all ten books:1. Memories of Ice2. Toll the Hounds3. Midnight Tides4. The Crippled God5. House of Chains6. Gardens of the Moon7. Bonehunters8. Deadhouse Gates9. Reaper’s Gale10. Dust of DreamsMy average star rating of the entire series: 4.2The star rating of the entire series based on my feelings after finishing: 3.5Here’s my SPOILER review of The Crippled GodThe first word that comes to mind when thinking about the final book is epic. The second word that comes to mind is disappointed. Is this a conclusion? Yes… And a whole lot of unanswered questions and ambiguous resolutions. I loved that this book focused on the incredibly interesting character of Tavore. I loved Ganoes Paran, Quick Ben and Kalam. I really enjoyed Brys and Aranict. I loved the convergence of plot lines, many going ten books back. There are epic, epic battles that I was very much invested in. That’s it. Those are the good things over the last 1200 pages. The rest of this book is typical Malzan fare: a bunch of random scenes of ancillary characters that have little bearing on the overall plot, conflict and resolution. This book should have been 500 pages. I just can’t help but have a sense that the conflicts and resolutions were arbitrary. I found that I didn’t really care about what happened in the end. It was cool to read but Erikson didn’t make me care about The Crippled God. He didn’t make me care about vanquishing the Forkul Assail. He certainly didn’t make me care about The Shake, The Snake, The Grey Swords and much more. When Fener appears in the sky and then Orlong for whatever reason just kills him. I still didn’t care. Why would I care about some god whose only screen time is watching his acolytes do vague and ambiguous things like 5 books ago? There are so many things like this in the series for me. And if the answer is “well go read the next series to find out more”. My answer is that this in no way justifies bad storytelling and underdeveloped characters. I think Erikson is an amazing writer with great skill with his prose and characters but in the end, the story he tells is just too inaccessible and the entire reader experience suffers. I don’t know what else to say. I’m done with this series and I hope I haven’t been too discouraging to the uninitiated but I have to be honest: these books are very, very flawed and are not for everyone.