Full review now up!I can’t believe I finally finished this series. Ten books, seven months, thousands of pages, and countless characters later here I am. Wondering how long it will take me before I re-read this series. I know I just finished it, but after spending so many months reading it I find myself out of my routine. I want to march the Chain of Dogs with Coltaine again, I want to fight the Pannion Domin with the Bridgeburners at Coral, and witness the Bonehunters at Y’Ghatan and Malaz City. Oh so many books on my TBR list and I just want to start this series over. Alas, it is time to move on…..for now.Someone told me the end of this series was satisfying, but kept you wanting more. I have to say I strongly agree with that statement. Most of the storylines were wrapped up nicely, but I am left wondering about a few. No worries! I will not divulge my curiousness in this review, so you need not worry about spoilers going forward. There are so many amazing things about this series. It is really hard to pick out what I loved most about it. Definitely some of the best and most memorable characters I have ever read about. A world so vast it boggles the mind that anyone could come up with such a detailed piece of art. Or maybe the raw emotion the story brings out in the reader. I can’t pick just one, so I will go with all of the above. 

“You walk the steps of your life, and always that dream beckons, that dream waits. You don’t know if it can ever be made real. You don’t know that, even should you somehow stumble upon it, you won’t find it less than it was, less than it could have been – if only you could have kept that distance, kept it just outside arm’s reach. For ever shining. For ever unsullied by the all-to-real flaws of your own making.”

The main thing that caught me of guard in The Crippled God was my feelings towards one of the characters. I had come to detest him so much throughout the other books, and at the end I found myself feeling only compassion for him. Erikson is always flipping the switch on the reader’s emotions, and he really caught me off guard with this one. With The Book of The Fallen series wrapped up I look forward to the other books in the Malazan world from Erikson and Esslemont both. Sooner rather than later more than likely. For anyone searching for the most epic fantasy series out there you can look no further. This has it all and much much more.  

“There shall be a Book and it shall be written by my hand. Wheel and seek the faces of a thousand gods! None can do what I can do! Not one can give voice to this holy creations. But this is not bravado For this, my Book of the Fallen, the only god worthy of its telling is the crippled one. The broken one. And has it not always been thus?I never hid my hurts.I never disguised my dreams.And I never lost my way.And only the fallen can rise again.”