"And now the page before us blurs. An age is done. The book must close."Wow, all things considered, that was the best ending I could've hoped for for a series so tragic. I'll share my thoughts on this book and then the series as a whole. Keeping it spoiler free, per usual. After the slow pace of Dust of Dreams, this installment seemed more fast paced than the other books. I think going in with low expectations helped, as well. Even though we didnt get resolution on everything, we still got closure on so many other things. I did feel like some characters were under utilized, one in particular, in these last 2 novels. While I was disappointed that we didnt see him much, Erikson more than made up for it with some of my older favorites. The OG's, if you will.There's not really much I can say about this novel without spoilers, so I'll conclude with this: this is a book that ramps up the epicness of this series from a 10 to a 20. And he also gives us a conclusion that is as fulfilling as you can hope for without sacrificing the tragic theme for sake of having a happy ending just because. "What's three and a half million words between friends?- from AcknowledgementsNow, on to my thoughts on this series as whole, since this wraps up almost all of the plots. There are so many. So many that I'm pretty sure I missed a lot of what others might have seen clearly.This is by far the most epic series in all of Fantasy, in every sense of the word and in every aspect. The cast rivals any series out there. I can't recall any series to use a cast this big. And with this big of a cast comes so many different story arcs. All of this is my favorite part of the series, but it was also the focal point of many of my frustrations. Especially in Dust of Dreams. Sometimes you won't see a character til 3, 4 or even 5 books later. Usually that's not a big problem, but keeping track of a cast this size can get pretty exhausting. I had to forgo the Dramatis Personae and very carefully wade through the wiki.This is the most rewarding series I have yet to read. While it gets frustrating having to remember who is doing what, the payoffs from all that work far outweighs any frustrations. While most of the books have a relatively slow beginning, the payoff you get, when you finally get there has never disappointed. Now, onto my favorite part of any series, the characters. One of the things I love most about this series, in particular, are the characters. More so their development. I also love how grey most of the cast is. Some do some terrible things, but for reasons you cant quite comprehend just then. I also love how he wrote most of his female characters. Most of the time I couldn't discern the males from the females unless there were either anatomical descriptors or a he/she put after the sentence. We got some really bad ass females in this series, too. All the different plots and story arcs were interesting. Or they were to ne, at least. I never found myself disliking the arcs for any specific race. Although, the K'Chain Che'Malle were among my favorites, by far. That's really about all I have to say regarding this book and the series. All-in-all, i highly recommend this series to anyone looking for something that's more epic than any Epic Fantasy series out. Plus, IT'S AN EPIC FANTASY SERIES THAT IS FINISHED. Which finishing a series seems like a hard thing to do, so I felt I should mention it.