Reread Review
Some six months after reading this book the first time I, along with some other hardcore Malazan veterans, with a lot of virgin Malazan readers in tow undertook the epic task of rereading the entire Malazan Book of the Fallen series. Sixteen months later here we are, finished again. Well done.I'm not going to change my initial review of the book itself because I feel what I have already written(below) is sufficient for that purpose. What I really want to comment on is the experience of rereading the entire series. Having a look at my initial comments here I see that reading this series the first time around was at once very rewarding, but also quite frustrating at times. I am happy to report that the reread was a far superior experience to the extent that I would say the reward for reading this series is in being able to read it again.A lot of my frustrations in not being able to connect the dots initially to a lot of the plot arcs turned into the satisfaction of discovering nuggets of missing links that had eluded me, and possibly would always have eluded me except I had undertaken to search for them retrospectively. On top of this was the added enjoyment that could only come from the discussion and sharing of ideas with new and old Malazan readers alike at The Malazan Fallen Book Club. I think this series, more than a lot of epic fantasy out there lends itself well to in depth group analysis and conversation. I think that the result of both the density of content in the books as well as Erikson's use of the unreliable narrator. I think there is only one or maybe two times in the whole series where we get an impartial omniscient view of the lay of the land. Most of the narration otherwise comes from POV characters who are imperfect and have an incomplete and often flawed perspective of what is actually true in the story. As such, you can have a single event described in different and often contradictory ways depending on who is telling a story. As such, even right at the end, there is no consensus of interpretations among members of the book club - which I like even if everyone else is wrong. I think Erikson has succeeded in simulating somewhat the experience of archaeologists and anthropologists(of whom he is one) who must try to put together pieces of the past from fragments of scrolls, and ancient ruins, and bits of bone. Like all stories of the past we attempt to reconstruct, the evidence does not necessarily speak for itself (contrary to what Grissom on CSI says) - all evidence, particularly of the past, is interpreted through the filters of our individual biases and opinions and experience. And so we have had a book club that looks at the same book, the same evidence, and yet at times comes up with a variety of interpretations that has made for some very satisfying interaction. I would also like to think that we have left behind a useful resource for other readers of the series who come after us - I'm not sure of anywhere else online where there is a separate non-spoilery thread for each and every chapter for each and every book of the whole Malazan Book of the Fallen series, so that regardless of where someone is in the series they can safely look for answers that may have eluded them.To those Malazan fans who were there from the beginning, to those who joined us on the way, to those who contributed for a portion of the way - I salute you all. Thank you for marching with me through the oases as well the wastelands of this series and making the journey all that more enjoyable.
Initial review
Here ends my epic read of an epic series. I consider the completion of these 10 books as a personal achievement. To say I have enjoyed the series would be over simplistic. Certainly there have been some very memorable moments and some very memorable characters throughout the series. But there have also been a plethora of generic and non interesting characters. There have been story lines/arcs that have been fast paced - but also a lot of story arcs that appear painfully slow, pointless and uninteresting. The writing style also is difficult at times with Erikson having the annoying habit of assuming the reader should know or remember small tidbits or clues to puzzles so that when the final piece is delivered there is no need for him to describe the final picture. And often he doesn't. While this can be very rewarding at those times when I figure stuff out on my own, there are a lot of times when I'm not sure if I got everything or if I missed something on the way.Having said all this, I have yet to read a book in the series where I felt I wasted my time. The battle and action sequences are intense. The world building and magic system is generally consistent and interesting. And the interesting characters are really interesting. I will hold on to a lot of memorable moments like Quick Ben outwitting Korbal Broach and Bauchelain, Anomander Rake and his sky keep, Kruppe moving deftly through the streets of Darujhistan using his immense powers to steal and consume cakes from venders, Ganoes Paran who became "Master of the Deck," Fiddler and his explosives, Kalam the Assassin, Whiskey Jack, Icarium Lifestealer, Tehol and Bugg, and there are more. Reflecting on the series now I remember nearly giving up on the first book thinking that there were very few characters I cared about - but by this last book I have found myself attached to many of The Fallen and so take a moment to shed a tear for comrades lost either to battles within the pages or to those I have had to leave behind to fates I will never learn . . .sniff.
Spoilers for anyone who hasn't got this far yet
But enough of that. In this last book of the series we rejoin Tavore and the Bonehunters on a gruelling march across a glassy waste to cheat the gods and to right an ancient injustice. By the end of the previous book we have an almost complete picture now of the plan for the Crippled God - a plan hatched by Shadowthrone and Cotillion along with Rake, Hood and later on Ganoes Paran. The plan was simple - just release the Crippled God from his chains so he can go back to where he came from. What's so hard about that? Forkrul Assail for one. An elder race who intend to feed off the Crippled gods power to bring an end to the universe. And maybe we throw in some Elder god has-beens who intend to release the Otateral Dragon and bring an end to the world. So did Shadow have a brilliant plan for countering all this magic and universe ending power? Well that's what the mere mortals are for. With blood and steel and a special one finger salute for anything with the word "elder" or/and "god" in front of it. 4 stars from me.