Re-read of the series in May and June5th read and I still love practically everything about this book. It is like coming home after a long trip away and just being so happy to be there again. If you haven't started this series yet you are missing out in my honest and very humble yet biased opinion Rereading Again....for no reason what-so-ever *whistles nonchalantly*Buddy Read with Alexa, Athena, Ya, Carole, oOSarahOo, and SandraFantastic and fun buddy read with some great girls. Totally worth the re-read less than a month later Kindle highlight count 149 (I might have a problem)LOVED IT, Loved it, LOVED IT!!!  4-4.5 Mad Rogan Stars.Spoiler Free Review - Top 5 Reasons I Love anything Ilona Andrews:1.	 Fan-Freaking-Tastic build-up of sexual tension.2.	 Never disappoint in making entirely new worlds and new magic systems.3.	 They know how to make interesting side characters that add to the story.4.	 Blending humor with action and suspense5.	 I want to live in these worlds. I want to hang out in Nevada’s warehouse home and play on Herald. Or hang with Kate at the Keep, go with Andrea to the shooting range and drink some of Doolittle’s Honeybadger tea. I’d love to go on an adventure with George, Jack and Sophie and I need to visit Dina’s Inn and play with her broom. I read all of their books over and over and love them more every time. Simply put they are the best. How many authors can switch up their worlds and make each one just as interesting if not more interesting than the last? I can only name a few.Burn For Me has everything that I have come to expect and need from an Ilona Andrews novel. There is the strong Heroine who is tough and likable, Nevada. The charismatic male lead Mad Rogan, who is handsome, rich, powerful, unconventional and a handful, possibly even a bit crazy, the jury is still out on that one. The bad guy/s are just as interesting as everything else. They are never quite what you would expect and sometimes they can give the Hero a run for the money with their wit, charm and burning sexuality.It all adds up to a great ride. I loved my introduction into this new world. It has new rules, a very different backstory than any of IA’s prior books and a whole new cast of characters. I’m sure I’m going to love all of them. Nevada’s family seems ripe with possibilities and I really liked the detective agency she is running with a few of her older and younger family members. They are a hoot and one of the strangest families I’ve read in a little while.The premise of the world is that some people through scientific help generations ago developed abilities to control different elements or energies. Something like X-men-ish type powers, anything from talking to animals, controlling fire, telekinesis to working with metals or plants. It was deemed incredible dangerous and so the serum used was banned and now generations have gone by where some families have coalesced their power through breeding over generations to become the strongest they could possibly be. Mad Rogan is a byproduct and head of such a family.Nevada’s family detective agency is owned by another powerful family and she has been commissioned to find one of its members before the police find him. Shouldn’t be too hard, except Adam is wanted for murder, extremely powerful and has an unusual fascination with Nevada.When Mad Rogan and Nevada’s paths meet in search of the same thing it doesn’t all go well.“So instead of talking to me, asking for my credentials, or doing any of those things a normal person would do, you decided to assault me and chain me in your basement?”He shrugged a, slow, deliberate movement. “It seemed like the most expedient way to obtain the information. And let’s be honest, you weren’t exactly harmed. I even took you home.”“You dumped me on my doorstep. According to my mother, I looked half dead.”“Your mother exaggerates. A third dead at most.”These two together really made the book for me. I ship them so hard. They are completely different and the way they rub against each other had me laughing and smiling just waiting for when something even hotter was going to happen. This is a slow building romance that I’m going to enjoy to build up for no matter how many books it takes…“Fine,” he said. “You had no idea it could be this good. Nobody in your past was ever that good and you know that nobody in your future will ever be this good. You’ve had a taste and you want more. You want sex. Dirty, naked hot sex. It’s floating through your head as we speak. You think you can imagine what it would be like. Trust me, you have no idea. I haven’t even started. So run from it, think it over, pretend it didn’t happen, it doesn’t matter. I’ll allow it for now. The more you fight, the more irresistible it will become, until one day I’ll motion with my hand and you’ll come running.”please in the next book…I love them please….  IA has this special way of making me love their characters. They aren’t perfect, they are scared or had deep seated issues of some kind hidden away, and I love ever new revelation and facet of them. I’m totally ready to dig in deeper and find out what makes Nevada and Mad Rogan especially tick.Another winner from IA and I really can’t wait to read it again. Which is why I’m re-reading it with some GR buddies when it come out.In Short….p.s. I will post a few more quotes after the book come out.p.p.s. Thank you to _______ for the ARC, you know who you are and I love you for sending your copy to me