If the writing team of Ilona Andrews decided to write an instruction manual on how to use my dishwasher, I would buy it, stay up all night reading it, chuckle out loud while my family sleeps obliviously, and highlight all of my favorite parts until the pages were so yellow that it looked like my dogs took turns "marking" it as their own. In other words, I'm a fan.This book hit every one of the happy spots in the Big Book Map that is located in my brain. It's like one of those old Nintendo Mario games with the world maps that have different levels. Some books can deliver on a few levels, and some books have "game over" written all over them from the start, but very few can make it past all of the bosses and beat the game. so much winCrazy analogy? I have boys, video games are my life, give me a break!Why so much win?Level One: The main character, Nevada.Nevada is a 25 year old Truthseeker who is the head of her family business, a private investigation firm. What is a Truthseeker? Someone who can magically tell if someone is telling the truth or not, and can pull the truth from someone even if they are not inclined to talk. She hides the fact that she has this ability because she does not want to get stuck working for the government as a human lie detector for the rest of her life. Her loyalty is to her family, and her family is awesome and funny. Ilona Andrews knows how to write amazing families. They did so in the Edge series, and they did so in this one. The grandmother in this series is hilarious. Nevada has a great magical talent, but doesn't have Special Snowflake Syndrome. She is funny and sarcastic, but she is also very likable, loving, and compassionate. She is tough, but not unbelievably kickass- just human. She is attracted to these extremely attractive men, but is too smart to get involved with them because they are a-holes and psychopaths. Her reactions are actually reasonable and well thought out. I never felt like she was acting like an idiot, and that's a big deal. I think people are too stupid to live in half the books I read, and I think that characters are making dumb decisions sometimes in the other half. Nevada's only questionable decision, in my opinion, was when she kissed Mad Rogan, but at least she also realized it was a mistake.Level Two: The SettingThis was exciting for me because this book was set in Houston, Texas. I live in Houston!!!best day ever!!!!Also, the world-building was awesome. Blah, blah, blah.... But, again, Houston!!! Yay!!!Level Three: The RomanceVery little!! Haha! As I said before, Nevada appreciated the good looks of the sociopaths men around her, but was too smart to get involved.He probably had to have protective detail when he left the building to fend off all the sculptors who wanted to immortalize him in marble.I'm a known fugitive who likes to set people on fire. come away with me so we can have hot sex while the entire city is trying to shoot me in the head. If I get bored, I'll barbecue you for my amusement.Sure, let me get my shoes...Level Four: The SociopathsThe men in this book are sociopaths. There is a bad guy sociopath, Adam, who has the magical ability to catch any noun on fire, and there is the "good" guy sociopath, Mad Rogan, who can move anything with his mind, including buildings off of their foundation. Nevada is hired to find Adam, and Mad Rogan kidnaps Nevada in order to find out what she knows because he is looking for a relative who is with Adam. Nevada ends up in a very uneasy partnership with Rogan. Uneasy because he kills with no remorse and hardly a thought. He doesn't even get why this bothers her."I would really like to know," he said with genuine curiosity. "The next time I kill someone, I'd like to do it in a way that doesn't freak you out.""How about you don't kill anybody for a little bit?""I can't make that promise."Both Adam and Rogan are awesomely fun psychopaths. They have no remorse and no understanding of normal human emotion regarding the sanctity of life. Characters like that are always amusing. If the clouds split open and an archangel descended unto the street in all of his heavenly glory and tried to make Rogan see reason, he would fail miserably and have to pack up his flaming sword and go back to Heaven in shame.Bonus Level: The HumorThis book had me laughing out loud so many times. The duct tape and paper towel bandage - yes, all men instinctively know how to make them from birth; the scene where she slams the door in his face, then opens it, takes the flowers, then slams it in his face again; the "I hate you", "You're okay" interaction... But, my favorite laugh out loud moment came toward the end, so I can't spoil it. I think it was the most original funny scene I have ever read when Nevada stopped Rogan from beating someone up just so that she could beat the crap out of them. I seriously cracked up at that. This book seriously delivered!