This statement has never been more true than for this particular book. The cover just screams "cheap-romance-with-sex" and if it hadn't been for the recommendations of Tadiana & Steven I probably wouldn't have touched it with a barge-pole (yes, I am a booksnob).But I listened to reason (recommendations), wrapped the book in thick paper & started reading ... and then I got hooked & I had great fun. The story has everything you need and in perfect proportions: nice world-building with urban fantasy elements, sympathetic main and secondary characters, action, romance & humour (never an element to be taken lightly). Influential families (called Houses) with powerful magic rule this alternate world and also control territories in Houston, where our story takes place. There are several kinds of magical abilities (telepaths, telekinetics, pyro/aquakinetics, etc) and several levels: minor, average, notable, significant & prime. Primes are usually the leaders of their families/houses and also "breed" to have offsprings with even more magic as it means social and economical power: the more you have the more influential you are. Of course, there are the "multitudes" with little or no magic: Nevada Baylor & her family is considered to be among them. She is managing a small private investigator agency and gets forced by her employer, House Montgomery, to go after a crime suspect who is a dangerous pyrokinetic & an anarchist, way out of her league. When, out of the blue, Connor "Mad" Rogan - prime of House Rogan & notorious ex-army "weapon"- gets involved, things get even more dangerous & complicated & intriguing ...It was very easy to like the MC Nevada Baylor: she is level-headed, funny and absolutely loyal to and fiercely protective of her family. She has her principles and her and her family's code of honour is very respectable & relatable. There are some hints of her being maybe, just maybe, a special-snowflake and yet to me she seemed normal & ordinary in the "I could be her" kind of way (well, I can't shoot or run very quickly, but the feeling is still there, if you know what I mean :) . )I also found Connor "Mad" Rogan a very appealing male lead, despite the suspicions I usually nurture whenever a customary alpha-male-billionaire is around. He was smart. I mean really smart, not just described as such and, just like Nevada, I couldn't help being fascinated by his brutal efficiency and found his total lack of social skills almost charming. His character development is handled very well by the authors. At the beginning he seemed to be one-dimensional and step by step we get to see behind his facade and discover his depths. He also has this self-deprecating sense of humour, which I liked. His encounter with Nevada's family & the following "interrogation" and banter from their side was one of the funniest scenes in the book. The secondary characters, members of Neva's family, are a delight to read about and their always being there for each other really gives you this warm, fuzzy feeling all around. The action and the world-building part (magic, politics) is also well thought-out and built-up. There is a certain conclusion to the storyline, but we find out at the same time that a greater pattern is behind of this particular adventure & I am glad it will continue & soon.Original UpdateWell, never judge a book by its cover and all that ... and feel free to despise me for being a horrible booksnob, but this cover is just ... Yikes! *shudder*