I am obsessed. I hate this book. I love this book. Once again, Stephanie Garber weaves the magic of fairytales into this story of curses that need to be broken, painful betrayals, and one girl’s quest to save her true love and get her happily ever after. At times, The Ballad of Never After is whimsical and beautiful. The writing is pretty and glittery especially when it comes to Garber's descriptions of dresses, cakes, and places in this world. As a result, readers are transported and delighted by the things the characters discover. At other times, this story is dark and filled with tension. It’s painful and makes you feel like you’re bleeding alongside the characters. To me, it’s the best of both worlds. “She believed that everyone’s life was like a story with an ending that was not yet written, and therefore everyone’s future held infinite possibilities.”My sweet Evangeline. I understand her more than I ever thought possible. What really impresses me about Evangeline’s character is her ability to believe in love and kindness even after being betrayed so many times. She's trying to heal from the hurt, yet still has so much hope that things will change for the better for everyone. I relate to her want to see the best in people, to understand their feelings and what motivated their hurtful actions in the first place. Some of her decisions are frustrating at times, but those same actions are what makes her feel realistic to me. She trusts her heart above everything else even if it’s not always wise to do so. To some, she might seem naive, but I think her compassion and positive mindset are part of what makes her so strong. I love Evangeline.“Life is not a kind storyteller. And I’m not meant to be a savior.”Jacks, my love with blue eyes and golden hair. What has always been great about Jacks is that he doesn’t pretend to be the hero or the good guy. He reminds Evangeline (and us) over and over again that he is the villain, incapable of love, and willing to kill to get what he wants. Yet, his actions sometimes tell a different story. He protects and saves Evangeline. He shows up just when she needs him to and whisks her away like a prince rather than the monster he claims to be. I think he’s brilliantly written because even though, as the reader, I got as angry with him as Evangeline did at times, I still loved and wanted to understand him. His heroic actions, although self-serving at times, show Jacks to be so much more than his cold exterior. When some of his past was finally revealed, I fell even more in love with him than I had been before. “In the morning, you can forget it. You can go back to pretending you don't like me, and I can pretend that I don't care. But for tonight, let me pretend you're mine.”While this is a love story, it’s a painful one. Sure some paragraphs made me giggle and swoon, but more often than not some of the most beautiful lines were bittersweet. A melancholy tone is very present throughout this book. It’s balanced with action, humour, and great banter, but the pain is there and gets worse as the story progresses. The moments of relief and happiness never seemed to last long enough before the angst and uncertainty returned.“She feared that dreams were like fairytales, a little bit true and not entirely trustworthy.”I realise I’ve mostly focused on the main characters and their relationship, so I do want to highlight that the side characters are well written too. It seems as though everyone has a secret, a sad backstory, a wound they're trying to heal. Like Evangeline, I began to trust the side characters but never fully because they're capable of harming others to get their wants met. I won’t go into details about the amazing plot for fear of accidentally giving something away, but the plot twists in this book were insane, and I gasped aloud so many times. I only guessed one twist before the reveal, but I think it was a pretty obvious one.“Happy endings can be caught, but they are difficult to hold on to. They are dreams that want to escape the night. They are treasure with wings.”I feel so much pain over the ending of this book. After everything that Evangeline and Jacks go through in this book, after everything that I went through, that ending was not okay. I cried a lot. To everyone who told me I would cry, and sent tissues and hugs in advance: thank you, and you were right. I am not okay. Stephanie Garber is an evil genius, and I am obsessed with her series. I need the next book. EvaJacks forever. ♡A few other quotes I loved:“I do not want you dead, and I’ll kill anyone who tries.” “I merely like the thought that I torment you as much as you torment me.” “It hurts, Jacks.” “I know, love. I'm going to take you somewhere safe.” “He held her with the type of intensity that only happens when a person wants something that isn't quite theirs.”