me, screaming: I will go down with this friend shipWhere has this queer high fantasy book been all my life? Kai is shooketh.I wish I knew where to start. There are so many aspects of this book that filled me with pure joy: frenemies, world building, characters, twists, diversity. No hard feelings!!! Ugh.I'm going to start with the one thing that could have been improved: the pacing. Overall, this is a finely plotted story. It spans over 8 to 9 years and I think it wouldn't have hurt to stretch the story more, give it a little to breathe for the characters to evolve, grow. I felt this especially in the beginning, when we see Csorwe turn from a quiet, nondescript girl into a warrior and spy. I see how the time jumps were necessary to let the author tell the story she wanted to tell, but another 50 pages or so might have given it more depth.Now that we got the unpleasant things out of the way, hear me gush about all the great stuff:I cannot believe how, in a matter of chapters, A.K. Larkwood created a fictional universe so rich and original. A universe in which thriving and dying worlds lie side by side, connected through a labyrinthine structure called the Maze. The universe is populated by all kinds of different people who seems to live peacefully side by side, for the most part. They all have their own history, traditions, social and political systems, and beliefs. And while they clearly look different and come from various backgrounds, their differences don't lead them to hate and fight each other. This is not to say that they all run around holding hands and loving life, but at least their outer appearance and faith don't serve as an excuse to disrespect and exploit each other. Overall, the attention to detail and the societies, cities, realms that the author built are utterly fascinating and I'm so glad that this isn't a standalone. I couldn't live knowing that there remains so much left to discover.The characters were a joy. Csorwe reminds me of Harry Potter in the way the she is more or less an average person. No shade. She is balanced, doesn't necessarily lean towards extremes, and therein lies her strength; it makes her relatable. She is a character with fears, dreams and hopes like anyone else. She's also pretty queer, like most - if not all - characters in the book. It's also great to see that no character experiences discrimination because of their sexual orientation. It's never once questioned. Because in a perfect world, why would anyone think of you as lesser just because you don't care about what gender you fall in love with?Something else that I found striking was how there is no main antagonist. This is not to say that Csorwe doesn't have enemies. She has lots of those. But alliances change a lot based on whether people have similar goals and decide to work together even though they might have been on different sides before. It's refreshing and creates unexpected turns and entertaining character dynamics.One more thing about the characters: Usually I live for queer ships. But what almost drove me nuts was the friendship/hateship between Csorwe and Tal. They both work for the same guy and should combine forces, work as a team. But they simply despise each other too much. At the same time they can't live without the other. Tal is a bastard, don't get me wrong, but I love him. And I want nothing more than for these two idiots to annoy the f*ck out of each other until the very end of this series. And I also want No hard feelings. to be what History, huh? was for Red, White & Royal Blue. If you don't know what I'm talking about, you better read RWRB quickly because you're missing out.Suffice it to say that this was my high fantasy adventure of the year.Find more of my books on Instagram