Of the nearly 12.5 million enslaved Africans who were transported to the Americas in the 16th - 19th centuries, it has been estimated that 1.8 million died en route, their bodies, some still alive, tossed overboard into the ocean.The musical duo Drexciya began a modern myth about mysterious and beautiful ocean creatures who were descended from those Africans who had been thrown overboard during the African holocaust. Forced to endure horrific treatment, starvation, and suffocating quarters, many became ill. The slave traders would then cruelly toss them overboard rather than "waste" any food resources on them, allowing these stolen people to drown in the vast ocean if they were still alive.Drexciya's story wonders what if some of the unborn babies of pregnant women had survived after their mothers were thrown to their deaths. What if these infants who had yet to take a breath of air into their still-forming lungs had been birthed in the ocean and survived? In The Deep Rivers Solomon expands on this story.  Because the memories of their murdered ancestors are so painful to contemplate, only one member of the Wajinru holds all the memories for the others. This is always a highly sensitive individual and Yetu is more sensitive than most. This is her story and the story of the Wajinru.  At times I was in love with this book. Rivers Solomon writes the most exquisite prose. Their words are music; like water, their words flow all around and immerse you in them. Their words are raw and haunting and beautiful.The story asks the questions: Who are we without our memories? Who are without a past? Who are we without our ancestors and their stories? Yetu longs to leave behind the memories of her ancestors in order to leave behind their pain. Then she meets Oori, a "two-legger" land dweller who is the last of her people and who is despondent that she knows so little of their past. The reader is left to ponder if it is worthwhile to hold on to painful memories and if there is a way to balance the act of remembering so that one can have a past without being consumed by it.Unfortunately, just as I would get most into the book, it would jump to other characters or to some time in the future, leaving me wondering each time where I was. I almost felt like I was flailing about, lost in water. Perhaps this was Solomon's intent. If so, they did it very well. It was frustrating for me the reader though and prevents me from giving the book 5 stars. The Deep is a haunting and beautiful story, tragic and hopeful at once.