There are too many things allured me about this including tempting storyline and incredible cover! But you know the feeling something bothers you and you cannot put your finger on it. Yes, something totally bothered me about this book. I have to admit: The premise is hopeful: Banished nine Greek gods who are vulnerable enough to be drifted from their powers at each seven year for seven days long fighting against descendants of Greek heroes who are adamant to take their lives! The world building is impressively great and Lore is unlucky heroine, underground fighter, suffering from painful grief after losing her parents and one of the loved ones recently. She’s the ruler of House of Perseus. Unfortunately one of her best friend Castor ( from House of Achilles ) fights against leukemia. Miles and Van are also at their friend circle. Now the new Agon is approaching in New York after 7 years later. Lora never healed after losing her parents at the previous one so she is adamant to fight against the descendants with all of her power. She cannot deal with more loses in her life.  At the beginning, after suffering from betrayal of sister, Athena who is still terribly wounded makes a smart deal with Lore which both parties will get their revenges even though it means shedding more blood.This book has interesting and intriguing plot line but the execution of the idea and overloading of action scenes make you roll your eyes! Too much happening in a short time period! You just get agitated at each second with too many triggering, ultra depressing subjects including terminal illness, gory, bloodshed for fight scenes, extreme violence, rape, sexual assault, slavery etc. The ending was also abrupt and a little dissatisfying for my taste. There are too many elements of this book like pieces of puzzle which put at the wrong places. Something truly missing about the entire picture and I cannot honestly name what it’s.  Maybe I was expecting more. Maybe story telling style, exaggerated violence, too much triggering subjects cut my living cords and exhausted me lot to enjoy the entire journey.  But at the end, I can only give 3 stars for the promising premise and intriguing world building. This book wasn’t exciting, earth shattering experience I was hoping to have.