This review contains no spoilers.RANTING AND RAVINGI really thought A Court of Silver Flames was going to be my worst read of the year, but damn, Lore really has a way of making me seriously question my life choices."omgomgomgomgthis cant bethis cant be realthis is turning into my favorite book and i am QUAKINGpls let it lastpls be amazingpls"At this point, I'm just laughing at myself, because that was one of my updates for this book, and now I just hate everything. I feel like I just wasted my precious eyes by reading the words in this damn book.{Side note: I'm glad people are realizing how shitty this book is.}*Long, weary sigh*That was the sigh of a person who was initially excited for this book. That was the sigh of a person who was screaming and raving about how good this book was in the beginning. That was the sigh of a person who was tricked.Can this book just fucking die? Please? I would start a petition to have this book banished from history and to wipe anyone's memory of this horrible book. OH MY GOD. MY HATRED IS UNBEARABLE. If this book was a person, I'd murder it.The beginning of this book (AKA the first fifty or so pages) really had me fooled. I thought Lore was a completely strong, badass, resilient, sarcastic fighter who spoke only with her fists, but then...there was nothing about her I could really like. No matter how hard I tried to like her, I just ended up hating her guts.The sad part is that this book had so, so much potential. Normally, I love every book with Greek mythology, and I'll admit that the synopsis of this book was fascinating and appealed to me. But Bracken completely ruined it. This is what everyone's been saying about Lore:"Greek mythology meets The Hunger Games." Me: *chokes*No, sweetie. No. I got absolutely no HG vibes from this book whatsoever, and the Greek mythology portion was absolutely horrendous. The only thing this book succeeded on was making me hate every single character and every single god and every single word in this damn book.WORLD-BUILDINGThere was so much info-dumping to the point that everything just became really confusing. Sometimes I would be reading a passage and it would be a whole fucking page explaining something to me, and I'm like...Bracken, do you think I'm stupid? There was absolutely no need for the author to add the amount of information that they did. It was completely unnecessary. I won't go far to say that the world-building was nonexistent, but it was definitely...nonexistent. I mean, it was there, but it's definitely not the type of world I would yearn to live in. It's not even the fact the fantasy world is dangerous, because obviously I'd love to visit District 12 with Katniss. It's just the simple fact that Bracken's world is utterly plain, dull, boring, stupid, pointless, and not appealing to me at all. The only thing we learn about Lore's so-called "world" is that she has a weird obsession with New York. Um...right. I get it. New York is beautiful and amazing, but repeating it ten times isn't going to thrill anyone.Bracken missed the entire scope of the New York setting. In her novel, it was just, "rainy days", "exciting adventures", "don't stay out after dark, monsters shall eat you alive." That sort of thing. I don't know what New York you're talking about, Bracken, but I don't think we're living in the same time period. I live in New York, and it's not fucking like that. At all. I get it, she hasn't lived there her entire life like the rest of us, but if you don't know a place fully well then don't write about it. If you don't know what you're talking about then don't talk about it. Simple.PLOTI'm sorry, did you say plot? No. No. Lore is just 400 pages of anticlimactic bullshit. The first half of the novel is preparing you an exciting, thrilling event of these stupid fucking teenagers hunting down gods, like teenagers are strong enough to actually destroy them, and that shit doesn't even happen. Or it does happen but it disappoints you so thoroughly that you just wonder why you ever bothered investing your time in this book in the first place. You mean to tell me I pushed myself through this book only for the ending to be completely unsatisfying and bland? The reader gets absolutely no reward for pushing through the beginning of the book. It was just, "Hey, here's my book. I put the most effort in the beginning, that's why it's absolutely enticing, but towards the middle and ending I got superrr lazy and I decided, hey, you know what? Fuck it. People will read anything nowadays. Let me just wing the remaining 300 pages of my book. People are bound to love it anyway."I'm sorry. That's not how it works here, sweetie.ROMANCEThis disappointed me on every level possible. The biggest disappointment for me (and trust me, there were many) was definitely the romance. The romance in this book? Laughable. It was a fucking comedy. If I was depressed, I would read this book and feel better about my life. The love interest is a joke. The characters are a joke. I liked Castor at first. I did. I liked him because of his very first interactions with Lore, and I thought they were a good match. But again, the storyline went and destroyed every exciting thing Bracken had planned for us. There was nothing, absolutely nothing between Lore and Castor. NOTHING. It was a mixture of insta-love and slow-burn romance, which I know makes absolutely no sense, but which I shall explain now. Bracken tried this thing where Lore and Castor were childhood friends, and I agree, that's a pretty sweet thing. Apparently they hadn't seen each other for eight years, blah blah blah, I don't really care, their story puts me to sleep. So these bitches haven't seen each other for eight years (which is ample amount of time to fall out of love with each other) and yet...the moment they see each other, they're...in love? Oh my god. I wanted to die."Lore, I was born knowing how to do three things—how to breathe, how to dream, and how to love you.”....Is that line supposed to be romantic? Because all I did was cringe.Castor and Lore basically fall back in love after like, two days -- which makes absolutely no sense, seeing as how they haven't spoken in eight years. Literally Castor & Lore throughout the whole book: tIME dOESN'T mEAN sHIT bECAUSE oUR lOVE cONQUERS aLL. Cringy? No, never that.Can we talk about the interactions between Castor and Lore for a minute? This is how most of their conversations went:Castor: I'm not fit to be a god. I'm unworthy.Lore: Yes you are. You are worthy.Castor: Stop lYING to me, Lore. Be honest.Lore: Cas, you're honestly the best person I've ever known. You have the most beautiful heart.Castor: But I don't know what to-Lore: cASTOR. YOU ARE BEAUTIFUL. YOU WILL KNOW WHAT TO DO WHEN THE TIME COMES.I despise characters that have no self-confidence. I fucking hate them. I understand everyone has insecurities but characters who make self-deprecating comments 24/7 just isn't my forte.CHARACTERS The characters can all fucking die. I would read their deaths just to amuse me. The story began progressing, and supposedly the rising action had kicked off, and there was just...nothing. There was absolutely nothing about Castor, or Lore, or Miles, or Athena, or Van, or anyone for that matter, that I could bring myself to like. I tried understanding them and trying to see if they resonated with me in any way. And there was nothing underneath. I felt absolutely no attachment. Every character in this book could literally drop dead and I would laugh. This book did a terrible job with the characters. They were flat, one-dimensional pieces of shit that I couldn't care less about. If you're here to get attached to some really lovable characters, this is not the book for you at ALL.Lore is, in all honesty, one of the most irritating pieces of shit I've ever had the displeasure of reading in my life. In the beginning of the book she acts tough. She is tough. But the reader only gauges that because she's fighting in a ring against a boy and punches the shit out of him. ...I'm sorry?So you mean to tell me a girl has to knock out a guy in order to be "strong"? No. I do not fucking approve. A girl can love wearing pink dresses, likes painting her nails and all that girly shit, and she can still be the toughest, baddest bitch in the show. My point is, a girl doesn't have to do something "mannish" (like wrestling/fighting in a ring against a man) in order to be considered strong. Her dress code has nothing to do with it, growing up with older brothers has nothing to do with it. All these stupid ass tropes need to fucking die because you're teaching girls the wrong thing.WRITINGThe writing was absolutely terrible. It was pointless. This book was pointless. I'm sorry, but Bracken has no voice whatsoever. I mean, she does, but it's not enthralling at all. Her words put me to sleep. Her style is so bland and stupid that even the supposed "exciting" points didn't move me at all. Her writing style sucked all the good elements of this book dry. ADDITIONAL POINTSThere was nothing about this book that made me want to turn the page. Everything was coated in a seemingly interesting storyline that had a lot of potential, but it just ended up being extremely disappointing in the end.Also, where was the Medusa part in this book? When did that come into play in this novel? That's a genuine question. I'm not being sarcastic. I DNFed this shit so I probably shouldn't ask that, but I got more than halfway, and I heard not a whisper of Medusa anything???Is there anything good about this book at all? Yes. The first fifty pages. After that, put it down. The rest isn't worth it. The character growth is barely there, and it doesn't even matter because there's no point in having character growth if the character is so dull. OVERALL... Overall, if you're here for a really excellent read, run. Greek mythology, run. If you're here for the romance, run. If you're here for the plot, run. You won't get any of that except a mouthful of sorrowful disappointment. And if you're here for the "Greek mythology meets Hunger Games", go get your fucking money back. You've been lied to.This read was devastating because the beginning had me thinking it was going to be another favorite of mine. Alas, I have been disappointed yet again.