“Have you completely made up for all the bad things you've done? No. But you keep adding to the good things column. That's all any of us can do.”...After the utter devastation that was The Burning Maze, I wasn't sure if my heart was ready for this book. The Tyrant's Tomb was long awaited, and I'm happy to say it didn't disappoint.I love this series so much.Grieving and battered, Apollo must push ever-onward toward Camp Jupiter, where new and old friends await. The Triumvirate are preparing their biggest strike yet, and Apollo is continuing his quest to restore the five sacred oracles with his young friend, Meg. Being a former god stuck in the body of a mortal teenager with flab and acne isn't easy to stomach, and Apollo has even more to confront as he grapples with the bitter truths of what it means to be human. What continues to surprise me in the Trials of Apollo is its darkness. Rick Riordan is known for his colorful, fun, mythological children's stories, but this series is a beast all on its own. Sure, Apollo is hilarious, and there's always fun and adventure in each of Rick's books. The Trials of Apollo, however, takes risks and isn't afraid to contemplate complex, dark realities.Apollo's character development has been astounding. Since The Hidden Oracle, Apollo's past mistakes and failures have haunted, confronted, and beaten him down, and it all beautifully culminates in this book. Our golden, self-absorbed god of the sun is finally beginning to understand the true joys and hardships of humanity, and it was heartbreaking. Don't worry: he's still the witty, charming deity we've all grown to love. But there's a softness, understanding, and deep level of sadness to his character that showed itself wonderfully in this book.Also, he managed to deliver some pretty hysterical lines. “I hated visiting Hephaestus’s office. His desk toys were so mesmerizing I found myself staring at them for hours, sometimes decades. I missed the entire 1480s that way.”I was delighted to see Frank, Hazel, and Reyna again. It was like being reunited with my children. Camp Jupiter is a great setting, and I enjoyed the introduction of new characters like Lavinia.I've said this once and I'll say it again. Meg and Apollo have the best friendship ever. I'm continuously brought to tears by the bond between a 12 year old girl and a cast-out god, and dammit, do you ever cry? “I'd always wondered what it would be like to have a younger sibling. Sometimes I'd treated Artemis as my baby sister, since I'd been born a few minutes earlier, but that had mostly been to annoy her. With Meg, I felt as if it were actually true. I had someone who depended on me, who needed me around no matter how much we irritated each other. I thought about Hazel and Frank and the washing away of curses. I suppose that kind of love could come from many different types of relationships.”Like all of Rick's books, there's some great mythology in here. The monsters, high-stakes action, adventures, and colorful characters are all delightfully present, and the climactic finale had me turning the pages in breathless terror. I had no idea what was going to happen, and since Rick has established himself as completely unforgiving towards his characters, I was so SCARED. Trust me, you'll be shaking your fists at the sky by the end of this book...but in a good way. Kind of.I loved this. Obviously. The Tower of Nero can't come soon enough. I'm 22 years old and about to get my undergraduate degree, and yet I still read every single book Riordan puts out. There's a reason I've been a dedicated reader for so long.Just...do you ever cry?...“I've always believed that most sentient creatures like to be recognized. Whether we are gods, people or slavering ghouls in vulture-feather loincloths, we enjoy others knowing who we are, speaking our names, appreciating that we exist.”