“Waiting for someone else to write your history was no way to live. Sometimes it was only a certain way to die.”
I feel sad. And mad. And happy. But mostly sad. This was me throughout this book:This book was . . . WOW. The beginning was chill and normal, just Kazi and Jase riding their horses and then BOOM. POW. ACTION EVERYWHERE AND THEN it all stops. Just like that. People are gone. People are injured. AND I WAS FREAKING THE HECK OUT. I was on the edge of my seat for this entire book, waiting for things to happen, waiting for CERTAIN events to occur.I got so upset when Kazi and Jase almost met back up but then GUNNER AND MASON AND PRIYA had to throw Kazi out. I still like them though.Also, I remembered nothing that happened in the first book. It took me a while to remember who certain characters were, what certain things were, where certain places were. Like all of Jase's siblings, it took me a while to remember who they were, and I feel ashamed. I also got spoiled for the Remnant Chronicles again, but whatever. I know that Kaden and Pauline are both from that series, and they appear in this book. The fact that I already know what's going to happen in the Kiss of Deception now is kind of making me want to push the book down on my tbr, because the reason I was so interested in that book is because of the plot twist that happens at the end of the first book, but now that I apparently know what happens, I don't feel like I want to read it as much anymore. Who knows, if someone can convince me, I just might be interested in reading it. Kazi and Jase's love for each other is so real and pure, and I want that so much. When Jase yelled that Kazi was his wife, I placed the book down and rolled all over my bed, I COULDN'T EVEN HANDLE IT. Jase and Kazi are so protective over each other, and when Jase was with Kazi in a certain moment, he almost made me cry because he was so protective over her, but they weren't happy tears. Just letting you know. Also, I think this Montegue guy was a great villain. He's a disgusting pig-headed person, but a good villain.I actually like all these little flashbacks back to moments with Kazi and Jase, they were so sweet, and I typically enjoy flashbacks in books. Synové is still hilarious, and still had me laughing.I also stayed up past midnight to finish this book, something I've never done before, and I'm glad this book was the book, despite the fact that I was very SAD when this book was over. AND THAT END, I CAN'T EVEN, ESPECIALLY IN THE TEMPLE, I ALMOST CRIED OUT OF HAPPINESS (the second time this has happened!) What Jase said was just YES. INCREDIBLE. AMAZING. I also ship Mason and Synové. Just saying. So anyways. I'm going to go and lay in a pool, contemplating everything. Overall: I love Kazi and Jase, the plot, action, romance, characters, and I'm sad.4.5 stars
“You have not stolen my heart, but I give it freely.”
<><><><><><><><>AAAAAAAAAAAAHI stayed up until past midnight to finish this and I kinda regret it because now it's all over 😭😭RTC