This was a weird book. If you like Mercy Thompson or October Daye but wondered if someone could make it more melodramatic and awkward, you will likely enjoy this.Content warnings  cancer, loss of a loved one, statutory rape, abortion, alcoholism, emotional abuse, goreThings that kept me from DNFing:-Nods at real teen troubles. I liked that we didn't infantilize teens or make magic school substantially different from regular high school.-It was fast. I got through it in pretty short order.The problem areas:-Yucky characterization. OMG the MC is suuuuuuuch a whiner! And kept talking about her sister like she was obsessed with her. I kept expecting her to wear her sister's clothes and steal her life or that incest would spring up. Very uncomfortable. On top of that she's an alcoholic and we talk about the alcoholism like her life drives her to it, but...nothing bad happens to her? And alcoholism doesn't need something bad, but it felt like someone who didn't understand addiction writing about addiction.-Ugh, romance. I have this problem with most UF books. Not to say that private investigators can't have love lives, but kind of bad form to develop feelings for a MURDER SUSPECT.-Ridiculous investigation. I'd pull her license. The process is utter horseshit, I got my steps in from the angry pacing and eyerolling alone.-Ridiculous mystery. It's not really a mystery. It's mostly a "how long can we keep this nonsense going."-Bad worldbuilding. So, this is not uncommon in UF where magic is not common. There's really 2 ways this is handled: it's a fact of life that there's magic, or there's some reason the muggles don't know about it. This went for option C: There are trained magicians out there with expansive private schools in Northern California, but also no one knows about them, even though they do magic at bars, and at home with their families and friends, and randomly throughout the day. -Really gross treatment of kids. I was hopeful, but the ending of this book made me want to beat both sisters up and then prosecute them. How dare they risk kids' futures for their own interests.-Grody ending. This trash human I've come to loathe expects a decent person to want to be with her? Maybe as state's evidence. Wear a red suit and a wire, sir, and get her to tell you how she just spent the past 24 hours.-Audionarrator. Like nails on a chalkboard the constant quaver and "woe is me" tone in her voice. I wanted to shake her until she stopped talking and then drop her off at a therapist.In short, I actually didn't like this but I give it a second star because I wanted to finish this like I want to see the end of one of those really staged reality TV dating shows with disaster humans trying to mate.