ARC received in exchange for an honest review.2.5 stars.All the Stars and Teeth has an interesting premise – a princess with a unique and dangerous magic who must take her throne by showing her might, but ends up on the run with a mysterious and snarky pirate who wants to save the world. It has all the elements of a good YA fantasy, but unfortunately I just didn’t find this unique enough to stand out.I really enjoyed the sea aspects of the story. Grace makes it very easy for the reader to imagine this magical island world, where each island represents a different type of magic. We have wind weavers and healers, time manipulators and soul stealers. Each magical system feels distinct and interesting, but I don’t think we really got to examine a lot of the world itself to fully appreciate this. There’s also plenty of action, and the pacing is pretty good as we hop from island to island, but the plot itself is extremely predictable and one I’ve seen done a hundred times before. AT times, the logic is also rather questionable, with characters with specific traits that are needed to advance the plot just happening upon our group. I won’t even go into all the ways the mermaid character just didn’t make sense to me, how she is basically just there as a deus ex machina, and woefully underdeveloped. She had so much potential to be this sassy, smart mouthed independent woman…and she just felt very one dimensional.I also didn’t really feel connected to the other characters. Amora is a very stereotypical YA princess, one of those ‘I’m just a girl’ chosen types who can miraculously slay sea demons and wants to do everything for the better of the kingdom. It got old rather quickly, and I just wanted to see more of a personality and character growth. The hints of romance were quite good, and I did get invested in the overt sexual tension and sort of love triangle that isn’t – but again, why try and pair everyone off? Not everyone needs a love interest to be a worthwhile character. That said, this was a reasonably fun ride despite the tropes. The writing is good, and I felt invested enough in the plot to want to find out what happened. I just won’t be in a hurry to pick up the concluding book.