“I am Amora Montara, Princess of Visidia, and I will be the future High Animancer. I am the right choice. The only choice. And I will protect my kingdom.”This book is full of MAGNIFICENT characters and DANGEROUS adventures. I enjoyed reading the heck out of it. However, it’s also just like any other typical YA fantasy books—which I’m not gonna lie, the whole gig is getting a little too old for me. I’m not about to put words in your mouth and tell you not to read it because if you’re in for some fun, I think this book certainly delivers. Just don’t go in expecting something extraordinary.Amora is forced to flee her kingdom after she fails her test in becoming the High Animancer. Desperate for a second chance, she agrees to an alliance with a mysterious pirate and goes on a mission that’ll hopefully help prove she’s fit to rule.First and foremost, my appreciation goes to the author for making my dreams come true with this magical tale of pirates, mermaids and princesses, curses and treachery. I LOVE SEA BOOKS and authors don’t write enough of them to keep me sated. The only thing this book lacks is grit and intensity—which I’ve decided that this is a preference issue and not the book’s fault.Don’t get me wrong, this book is bloody and action packed. You can’t go braving the open sea and saving a kingdom from a certain doom while being a fugitive without once having to spill some lives in the process. It’s just that despite all the minacious situations our characters have to get themselves out of, I never really felt the adrenaline rush. There were scenes where I should’ve felt mortified, disgusted, or scared, but I just didn’t.“We’ve shared an experience only a few people will understand, and it’s marked our souls. The sea is a beast more fearsome than even the lusca.” The characters are well written. There are no better crew members to lead you on a sailing quest than a charming pirate, a vicious yet lovely mermaid, a loyal protective healer, and a strong determined princess. For some reason though, while I can recognize that our heroine has some great qualities, I couldn’t fully root for her in the beginning. She treats her fiance like he’s some dirt under her shoe. I understand her frustration, but at the very least she could treat him like a friend.“Are you flirting with me?” he teases. “It’s a bit hard to tell, considering how terrifying you are.”The romance has a nice dynamic that’s completely seperate from other elements of the story. I mean, it’s not the focal point but it has its moments. The banter is absolutely amusing. Sometimes during—what’s supposed to be—a heartfelt scene, the dialogues come across as sweet but also a little cheesy. There’s some twist at the end that’ll sure complicate this romantic relationship in the next book. There’s a possibility of a new pairing as well.This book also incorporates topics such as menstruation, sexism, sexual assault, and abusive relationship into the story. Those are some big heavy words. While some readers who are close to young adult age can maybe feel the empowerment, they are neither hard hitting nor impactful for me. I acknowledge the sentiment nontheless. It’s appreciable to have those kinds of discussions in YA books.“Fear is part of life; all that matters is what we do with it.” All in all, this is not a bad debut book by any means. The characters, the plot, the world building, and the romance are solid. The pacing is steady, albeit the writing is fairly simplistic. There’s a predictability in some of the twists, but this book is otherwise enjoyable to read. Personally, I’m just neither disappointed nor blown away by this as I’ve tasted this recipe too many times and I feel like this book offers nothing particularly special.If you like this book, you might like:↠ Crown of Coral and Pearl↠ To Kill a Kingdom