MIND=BLOWN  My hysteria is threatening to break me and I wonder if it is possible to die of elation. I'm frozen in 35646 layers of disbelief and I'm trying hard not to explode from the sheer impossibility of this flawless story I've read. I read, read, read, and read until I reached the Acknowledgements page and knew for sure that I finished the best book I've read in like... an eternity.The story is simple, really. It picks up right where it left off in A Court of Thorns and Roses.Feyre is living in the Summer court and is going to marry Tamlin. But things have changed since she has turned into High Fae, an immortal body but with a human heart: She has to stay by Tamlin's side and be his trophy, left with nothing to do but paint and plan her wedding with Tamlin, High Lord of the Spring Court. As she grapples with the horrors she's had to endure Under The Mountain against Amarantha, she also awaits Rhysand, with whom she struck a bargain to visit his Night Court for one week every month.A Court of Mist and Fury was magical. Angsty. And  Damnably beautiful. The  plot  was so tangible, I didn't want to get it over with. The romance  was so tantalizing, I felt my heart pound frantically in my chest. The  ambience  was so  alluring , I struggled to take my eyes off it. And the twists were so unexpected , I was forced to gawk and stare at the ceiling, due to relief or stupefaction, I don't know. I was thoroughly enchanted in a world filled with intrigue, magic, lies, and secrets and I feel weighed down by the depth of it.Sarah J. Maas's writing is the literal definition of  magnificent. She creates a world so captivating and lets you drown in waves of wonder  and intrigue,  enigma  and appeal. Her words are powerful, heavy with conviction, articulate, and relevant. I can't thank her enough for delivering this masterpiece and much more. And for introducing me to two of the best characters I can't stop fangirling over.  Rhysand.  High Lord of the Night Court; Beautiful, brutal, and powerful. He appears to be cold and arrogant initially, occasionally cracking jokes about his beauty. He is surrounded by an aura of sensuality and vivacity and he handles even the direst of situations with grace, casually yet courteously. He is as dangerous and ferocious as he is subtle and generous. He hides behind a mask of savagery and manipulation, trickery and deception but beneath the mask, he's kind and humble, a High Lord who cares for his people more than he deigns to express. Feyre.  Our strong protagonist who develops from being oblivious in the first book to someone who didn't need to be coddled, pampered or protected, who didn't crave  stability  and comfort , or  luxury and  easiness . She hates being judged based on her human life. She can be compassionate, affectionate, and loving, but she can also be vicious, seductive, and cunning as she sees fit. Extremely short-tempered and sometimes provocative, she makes for her shortcomings by being powerful, warm, and unbelievably loyal (Ironic, as she keeps calling herself a  traitor )I really liked Tamlin in A Court of Thorns and Roses I thought I'd be devastated by not seeing him with Feyre. But the author made it easy for me to dislike him as he wanted to lock Feyre up, keep her as his trophy and suffocate her by being overprotective.  "Love was balm as much as it was poison" The reason why Feyre had been hopelessly in love with Tamlin could've been because of the fact that she was lonely and desired company and so fell for the first person who showed her a hint of kindness and offered commiseration and safety.  Whereas Rhysand was different, he gave Feyre the freedom to choose what she desired and believed in her capabilities. He soundlessly, silently, fought for her. A perfect gentleman.  "He locked you up because he knew- the bastard knew what treasure you are. That you are worth more than land and jewels. The story also shows us how much our first impression of people/ things could be wrong in the form of role reversals in the male protagonist. Rhysand, who I once perceived as a manipulator, liar, and a "shameless flirt" unveils his identity mask and shows how considerate and sacrificing he can be for the people he cares about. I'm glad I could see a whole new depth to his character, that despite being hard as a shell on the outside, he too had moments of weakness wherein he needed consolation.The book was in support of feminism and  equality .It also shows how one can go to any extent to protect their friends and loved ones whilst also exemplifying that  you can choose your family. Cassian, Azriel, Amren, and Mor were amazing support systems and I'd give anything to meet them in real life. I could keep going on and on about it, but I think I will peace out for now. 😁✌️