Buckle up ladies and gents and those outside these labels: Mary will have words with you (and she will stop referring to herself in third person).“When you spend so long trapped in darkness, you find that the darkness begins to stare back.”A Court of Mist and Fury is a million steps up from A Court of Thorns and Roses for a thousand reasons and one. The most prominent one though, the one that glows with the fire of a thousand suns, is how—even as a cheasy, romantic fairytale—this book is more painful and human due to themes of trauma and mental health than both its predecessor and its inspirations: Beauty and the Beast turned Hades and Persephone.“To the stars who listen—and the dreams that are answered.”With an expanded yet still fairytalish (meaning less defined rules) world, emotional, dramatic, flowing, thread-of-thought writing, and new, captivating, and steal-your-heart-stab-you-in-the-dark characters and dynamics on top of themes of depression, abuse, and post traumatic stress disorder, ACoMaF really has much to talk about.Shall we begin to dig in?“[I knew that] I would never be a gentle grower of things, or someone who burned like fire—but that I would be quiet and enduring and as faceted as the night. That I would have beauty, for those who knew where to look, and if people didn’t bother to look, but to only fear it...then I didn’t particularly care for them, anyway.”Mental Health: How We Can Inflict Pain While in Pain➥ PTSD, Depression, and (Possibly) BPD with Feyre & TamlinOne of the first things people criticise A Court of Mist and Fury for is Tamlin—some say his actions came out of the blue, while others agree that he was acting according to character but SJM made him an unnecessary villain when he could’ve been given support to heal. So before I discuss Feyre’s mental health issues and their representation, I’m going to address those two groups of people.“I am drowning. And the more you do this...you might as well be shoving my head under the water.”➤ Do Tamlin’s choices come out of the blue?The answer is a simple no, and here’s why: Even in A Court of Thorns and Roses, Tamlin was a controling, aggressive, uncommunicative person who did not know how to truly listen or speak, how to be considerate and open. This makes sense because not only was he not taught any of those traits, he also experienced trauma and abuse growing up.He is extremely emotional and has no idea how to control those emotions, all while having learned to ignore his feelings because only ruthlessness equals survival and efficiency. This is unhealthy for a myriad of reasons, least of which is the fact that, no matter how willfully and insistently you turn away from your emotions, they never go away—closing your eyes so you might not see them doesn’t mean they aren’t there, it just means they’ll pounce on you in your greatest moments of weakness and you simply won’t see them coming.“The issue isn’t whether he loved you, it’s how much. Too much. Love can be a poison.”Tamlin is lonely and broken and living behind a wall of mistrust and fear, not knowing how to tear down that wall nor even acknowledging its existence. I have a couple of friends who struggle with Borderline Personality Disorder and, while I don’t want to diagnose anyone here, he actually reminded me of one of them. I will elaborate, bear with me.➤ Is Tamlin’s arc unnecessary and unrealistic?That is a straight up no, because of the aforementioned friend. Much like my friend, Tamlin neither wants to acknowledge that he needs help, nor does he want to be vulnerable enough to accept anyone’s help. Do I think he is broken beyond repair? No, no one is broken beyond repair. Our scars, however ugly, are what make us beautiful, and the cracks in a broken glass can be filled with gold, healed to become something new. But do I think he could’ve healed in this book with the help of Feyre and Lucien? Again no, because of two reasons.“There is the darkness that frightens, the darkness that soothes, the darkness that is restful.” I pictured each. “There is the darkness of lovers, and the darkness of assassins. It becomes what the bearer wishes it to be, needs it to be. It is not wholly bad or good.”❶ I’ve personally grappled with mental illnesses for years and have friends both online and offline suffering who I’ve walked this path with, dragged back from the edge of suicide, and given help and solutions to when they hurt themselves and others so they could heal. I’ve also made a very, very unhealthy choice again and again and put aside my healing to be everyone’s full-time therapist. Anyone who was in pain? I would roll up my sleeves, telling them to come seek me out whenever and for whatever, and put all my energy in the ring when they did.Now, I’ve learned something from my online big sis Cath: You are no one’s therapist (unless that’s your job ofc). And Feyre did what she could to give Tamlin the space and support he needed, but she was also suffering herself and it’s cruel and infuriating to expect her to completely forget about her own pain and force him to heal when he isn’t truly accepting or seeking help. Which is the 2nd reason.“Sweep it under the rug, like everything else.”❷ It’s one thing to support and help a friend towards healing, and it’s another thing to heal them. You can’t save a drowning man who refuses to take your hand. You could jump in, grab them, and swim to shore—but there’s a high chance they would drown you, too, in their attempt to get you off them. Again, I have done this, and it’s wrong because not only was I taking away their choice and saying that I know better (which I don’t, it’s their life) I was also risking them drowning me—I don’t much care about this, let me drown who cares, but it’s not healthy behaviour.Still, I’ve done it, put life and breath and soul into showing those drowning friends why they should seek a hand to stop their drowning and learn to swim, and I’ve failed as many times as I’ve succeeded. That friend I mentioned Tamlin reminded me of? She’s one where I failed, and all I could do was watch her in pain as she lashed out and inflicted pain on others, and try my best to do damage control with her victims—because they were victims, as Feyre clearly is one. A victim of abuse rooted in ignored, festering pain, twisting a caring, passionate soul into a source of suffering.“There are good days and hard days for me—even now. Don’t let the hard days win.”Now that that is out of the way, how about Feyre’s struggles?➤ Above all else, this book is a love letter to healing. I can’t personally vouch for the PTSD (which I found accurately written based on what I’d learned of it from others’ experiences), but I can tell you about depression. And I can tell you how heartwrenchingly Feyre’s suffocating blanket of silence that cruelly embraced her and hauled her beneath the sea resonated with me. I will leave the exploration and healing to Sarah J. Maas. Thank you.Friendship: Why We Need Support to Heal➥ Rhys, Mor, Amren, Azriel, and Cass Vs. LucienI think the second best thing about ACoMaF, beside its rep, was its characters and their dynamics. More specifically, the Court of Dreams. I find that name too cheesy to swallow so from now on I’m referring to them as the Gang #sorrynotsorry.“I have so many things to deal with that I’m sometimes tempted to unleash my power across the world and wipe the board clean. Just to buy me some damned peace.” #relatable✦ Rhysand might not be my number one (or two, or even three) character in this series, but that does not mean I don’t love him, it just shows how many amazing characters grace the pages of this book—because I do love him. He might be arrogant and teasing and always seem in control, but underlying that facade is a deeply rooted insecurity and self doubt. They do say the most seemingly arrogant people in the room are the least confident ones (I mean, I hope they do and I didn’t just creates a saying out of the blue).Confidence means believing in yourself even as you mess up, and Rhys might be arrogant but he’s not confident—his every mistake and misstep are worms he lets devour him from the inside out. And he does make mistakes, because he is not perfect, just as no one is; he is a person who, in his drive to protect and give and give and give from himself until he is bled dry, tends to occasionaly refuse to share what he knows and others should be informed of. What’s most important though is how he accepts, apologises, and learns from his mistakes because what he values most is freedom of individuals to choose the path they want to walk.“You remain your own person. You decide your fate—your choices. Not me. You chose yesterday. You choose every day. Forever.”✦ Amren with her no-nonsense, practical, I-will-sooner-kill-you-than-coddle-you attitude is my real number one, because this unyielding Tiny Ancient One would tear the world to pieces to fight for what she holds dear—though you wouldn’t guess what it is she values with her general cutting reply to everything around her.“I once lived in a place where the opinion of others mattered. It suffocated me, nearly broke me. [...] with enough courage, you can say to hell with a reputation. You do what you love, what you need.”✦ Mor takes the spot as my 2nd fave right next to Azriel; where one is fire and boldness and charisma, the other is ice and silence and an enigma, and both will have your back and front and sides all the way to the threshold of death—and beyond. And then there is baby Cassian with his insufferable arrogance and heart of marshmallows that will push you and be there to catch you if you fall. (I need to add that I will take my hope for a polyamorous relationship between these three with their complicated, enchanting dynamic to the grave and hold it close through whatever comes next).✦ But why are they so important to Feyre’s healing? Because you can’t heal alone. I’ve tried it, and the road is rockier and more precarious without a shoulder to lean on and a hand to hold. I’m still learning to not cringe at taking a hand to walk the path (and failing, not gonna lie) but I nevertheless appreciate how breathtakingly SJM writes these journeys of recovery every. damn. time. You need friends to heal, and you need to help friends to heal.“I wonder if, even in my despair and hopelessness, I was never truly alone. I wonder if I was looking for this place—looking for you all.”✦ That’s where Lucien fails. I love him and his loyal heart, but sometimes you need to check your loyalty—sometimes the people and values you are holding on to are breaking something rare and fragile. That’s the precise issue with Lucien: He does not understand the depth of Feyre’s pain, if he had, he would’ve fought without backing down, getting up each time he hit the ground, because my baby is not a coward. Alas, people don’t ever really grasp another’s invisible pain.Romance: Where Love Can Bloom (SPOILER ALERT)➥ Instalove or Slow Burn, featuring Feysand“I’m thinking, that I look at you and feel like I’m dying. Like I can’t breathe.”Rhysand and Feyre are not my fave couple as their dynamic is too sweet and romantic for me personally. However, it takes nothing away from how you feel them fall in love, like a flower blooming and a freezing pair of hands finding colour next to the miracle of fire, or like the warmth and light of a familiar embrace you fall into in a world of cold, dark unknowns.Some readers accuse the mating bond of being instalove in the case of Rhysand falling for Feyre. Did they read chapter 54? Rhysand fell for her as she was a human surviving Under the Mountain, and everything he did before that was him trying to save an innocent girl he suspected of being his mate but did not specifically feel anything towards.In the end, mayhaps this book is too romantic for me, the aromantic with a heart of ice, to ever be my #1 book of all time, it nonetheless makes a comfortable and cozy den in its corner because A Court of Mist and Fury is a fairytale that takes the dashing princes and magic, and replaces it with human suffering and healing.“You think I don’t know how stories get written—how this story will be written? I am the dark lord, who stole away the bride of spring. I am a demon, and a nightmare, and I will meet a bad end. He is the golden prince–the hero who will get to keep you as his reward for not dying of stupidity and arrogance.”CompanionsBook series playlist: Spotify URLBooks in series:➴ A Court of Thorns and Roses (ACoTaR, #1) ★★★✯☆➴ A Court of Mist and Fury (ACoTaR, #2) ★★★★★➴ A Court of Wings and Ruin (ACoTaR, #3) ★★★★☆➴ A Court of Frost and Starlight (ACoTaR, #3.1) ★★★☆☆➴ Untitled Novella (ACoTaR, #3.2) ☆☆☆☆☆➴ A ​Court of Silver Flames (ACoTaR, #4) ☆☆☆☆☆