The way the main characters kept quoting Shakespeare like it made them quirky and special....lolThe Beautiful is an apt name for this book, since the main characters are ludicrously beautiful for absolutely no reason at all. The protagonist is the most beautiful girl on the planet and everyone falls in love with her and thinks she's amazing, and of course her love interest is equally as beautiful and they're just both so fucking beautiful that they fall in love after about 4 interactions. Because beautiful people are just destined to fall in love with each other.Not to mention the fact that the book intentionally hides the main plot from the reader for the first 90%, before you finally start getting some answers as to what the hell is actually going on. This means it hinges on you being interested enough in the romance to keep reading, which is one of the most unconvincing cases of inta-love I've read about in a long time. The only thing that draws Celine and Sebastien together is the fact that they're both just so fucking good looking, and they both have a special, I'm-different-to-everyone-else-because-I-like-Shakespeare complex. And the way Sebastien kept being compared to both God AND Lucifer made me roll my eyes so hard they slipped into the back of my head. I've never met a character with a bigger God complex so undeserving of it in my life. Having a pet snake does not make you a badass.So much of the story was so weird and hard to follow. None of the characters had any normal reactions to anything that happened; none of them acted like people. The dialogue was stilted and awkward, trying to be poetic and failing miserably. It's the most annoying kind of purple prose: more concerned with crafting a pretty sentence that looks nice than with actually saying anything of note. That means you get a lot of long-winded paragraphs that sound profound when you first read them, but then when you actually examine they reveal themselves to be rather empty and trite. I really don't get along with writing that has this level of obsession with aesthetic over substance.And don't get me started on how derivative everything was. If you're going to write a vampire book that clearly intentionally plays on Twilight-nostalgia (come on, just look at the cover) at least try and do something original with it. Tell me if any of this sounds suspiciously familiar to you: a 'blood feud' between vampires and a certain other supernatural race that enjoys howling at the moon, a main character who's new in town who everyone immediately loves for no reason, the set-up of a forced, bland, boring, predictable love triangle that's definitely going to be arduously drawn out in the sequel? This is just Twilight except make it New Orleans in the late 1800s!And why is the chief of police an 18 year old kid? Why is Sebastien, a 19 year old, the all-powerful leader of a secret society full of immortal beings much older than he is? Is this world just run by teenagers?Though I will say that I appreciated the diversity of the cast. These sorts of books (historical supernatural romance) are usually pretty white, so it was refreshing to have characters of mixed backgrounds take the stage for once. And I can tell Renee Ahdieh does have a genuine love for the vampire genre - that much is clear from the acknowledgements. It's just a shame she's not better at actually writing it.At least this time the main character who everyone falls in love with doesn't pretend not to know she's preternaturally beautiful. Though I'm still not sure why every single character, even the villains, liked her so much. She was kind of annoying and superior, actually.And the villains just weren't scary or threatening at all. The way they kept waxing poetic about their tragicness and monstrosity made them seem like some kind of hilarious parody of every Byronic villain there's ever been. I just couldn't take them seriously.Also, for a book about vampires, the actual vampires were barely in it at all. It was basically a historical romance with a side helping of murder mystery and some vampires chucked in at the end as an afterthought. I mean, you know it's a book about vampires, I know it's a book about vampires, we all know it's a book about vampires, so treating the vampires like some massive mystery and plot twist at the very end is just...stupid. It's like, once the actual plot gets around to starting, the book freaking ends.