But if a monster takes a life, what kind of creature refuses to save one? Ladies, gentlemen, non-binary fellows, let me introduce you to THE VAMPIRE COMEBACK WE ALL NEED AND DESERVE.Honestly, these were the esasiest 5 stars I've given to a book in a really long long long time. I adored everything about this book, including things many other reviewers pointed out as flaws, like how long it took to finally start and how everyone seems to speak 600 different languages all at once, all the time. The writing is exquisite. I usually find myself snoring my way out of info-dumping chapters or scenes filled to the brim with descriptions, but I truly didn't mind the way the author managed both. Her Louisiana is simply alive. There were moments I swear I could smell the city around me. Forget Celine, New Orleans's the real queen, here. I'm in love with all the characters (Odette and Bastien in particular) and the mystery factor was so good I was a bit sad when I found out who the culprit was. I've seen many reviews compare it to Twilight and anything Anne Rice, and I've got to agree to a point, but I also found it to be vaguely reminescent of Six of Crows, too, especially in its characters' characterization (sorry for the alliteration) and incredibly diverse cast. As I've said in one of my reading updates, Odette could be Nina's long lost twin, Bastien is basically a less sulky Kaz Brekker who apparently knows how to not be broody for 2 minutes straight and likes to dance, and his bestie Arjun could give Jesper a run for his money (Six of Crows pun, please tell me you get the reference). No, seriously, this is the best part. There were so many different, complex and well-crafter characters I sometimes couldn't believe I was reading only one book. So many backstories, so many voices. I especially adored that, while their race and sexuality often played a big role in the story, it never felt like they were the only or main characteristics that made said characters interesting. What I'm saying is, they weren't at all the stereotyped token POC/lgbt+ characters you sometimes read about - those who are there for the sake of a political/social agenda or a quota to fill with pretentious fake wokeness. They were more than that - not just that, all of them, and it was amazing.The only complain I feel like having is that I probably would have enjoyed this even more (as if it was possible tsk) if the characters were just a tad bit older. Not much, maybe just a couple years. Oh, whatever. My immagination can patch the leak up so I'll stop feeling like an old fart whenever I have to read about cool, super mature, adventurous teens doing cool, super mature, adventurous stuff.The Damned is everything I would have loved to read about when I was still a fake edgy teen who wanted to marry a vampire and only had Bella and Edward (and their absurd sense of style) to feed her fantasy-romance-gothic little heart with. I don't know if it was done on purpose buuuut I think I was destined to stumble upon this book soon or late, and to disastrously fall in love with it. I mean... The black cover, the Gothic font, the title, the red touch... I don't know about you, I can hear my 15-year-old self yodeling at the top of the mountain. And this was only the first book! Oh, and I can totally see this becoming a TV show, by the way. And if they don't cast Zendaya to play Celine I'll be very very very very disappointed.