This was so good!! I don't know what it is about vampires—particularly vampires who live in the Southern U.S.—but I just can't get enough. Celine Rousseau travels from her home country of France to New Orleans, where she will stay with a convent along with a group of other girls from Europe until they can each find a suitable husband. Celine makes friends with one of the others—a British girl called Pippa—but Celine find it difficult to fit in at the convent since her dressmaking skills aren't particularly useful there. When Celine agrees to make a dress for a mysterious woman, Celine and Pippa are pulled into the mysterious world of La Cour des Lions, and Celine isn't sure that those she meets are entirely human. Meanwhile, a killer is on the loose in New Orleans, and Celine can't help but begin to fall for Sebastien Saint Germain, the beautiful, young leader of La Cour des Lions. "We forget our dreams, but nightmares linger with us evermore."The setting and premise for this book are splendid. First, who doesn't love New Orleans? I think Ahdieh did a fine job capturing the magic and diversity of the city. The latter in particular was handled very well, especially considering that this is historical fiction and a lot of authors use that as an excuse to whitewash their characters. Secondly, I loved the near-constant use of French. I'm not sure what it would be like to read this book without knowing any French first. I mean, I'm far from proficient, but I know enough that I wasn't constantly pulling out Google Translate or wondering what was going on. I was pleasantly surprised, and now I'm wondering if Ahdieh took French in college (mostly just because I go to the same university she went to). Third, vampires. Need I say more? I will read just about anything that has vampires in it, and I wasn't disappointed here, either. Well, mostly. The vampires themselves aren't revealed until later in the book, and we are left with a lot of questions about the vampires at the end. I'm assuming this will be cleared up in The Damned, but I would have liked to have learned more vampire lore in The Beautiful. The book is, in many ways, very typical YA. Think along the lines of All the Stars and Teeth. The two books aren't super similar, but I get the same vibes in that they are both pretty tame YA fantasy. They're the kind of books that you'll either love or hate. Ahdieh isn't very original with some of the things in The Beautiful, but it was enjoyable nonetheless. The ending has left me with a lot of questions, most of which I can't voice since they'd be spoilers. Mostly, I want to know what will happen to Celine. I want to understand the vampires and the different forces at work. I'm excited that The Damned is from Bastien's POV, but I also feel like I'll miss Celine's perspective. One thing I'd like to add is that I've seen some criticisms complaining about the love triangle. I hate badly done love triangles as much as the next person. You know what I'm talking about: the girl just can't make up her mind, and she flits back and forth between two guys who are begging her to just pick one of them. This is not at all what is happening in The Beautiful. Instead, Celine is clearly only attracted to one man, despite the fact that two men are attracted to her. This situation is perfectly logical. Celine is never in love with two men at the same time, and in my opinion that means that a love triangle does not exist here. Furthermore, I'd like to add that although Celine is attracted to Bastien from the beginning, she makes it clear that she isn't in love with him. I am happy to report that there is therefore no insta-love, either. "Rage is a moment. Regret is forever."Finally, let me say that this book is one of those treasures that has several different things bound up in one. Yes, this is YA romantic fantasy, and yes, it's a historical that takes place in New Orleans, and it's filled with mysterious vampires, but it's also a mystery with some Shakespeare references thrown in for good measure. That is, I think, what makes it not just okay, but good. Long story short, if any of this sounds interesting, please please read this book!The Beautiful: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The Damned: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️