Kazuo Ishiguro is a master stylist, with books that range from futuristic, sci-fi, surrealistic and post-colonial. So it is no surprise that his new novel is unlike anything he has written before. Like its predecessors, this novel concentrates on memories: their power to silence, distort, and forever haunt, with characters that are often alienated and searching. Yet the book is distinctly an adventure fable, integrating an ancient British civilization with fantasy.The two questions are: is it good? And is it satisfying? The answer to the first question is absolutely yes. All the trademarks of Ishiguro – his masterful prose, his characters’ search for meaning and his feats of imagination are all well on display. The answer to the second question is far more subjective and will very much depend on what each individual reader enjoys.The novel takes us into post-Arthurian Britain, populated with those mythic heroes, including a still-living Sir Gawain, yet there’s a twist here: A mist has fallen on Britain, forcing the isle into a collective loss of memory. (“IT’s queer the way the world’s forgetting people and things form only yesterday and the day before that. Like a sickness come over us all.”) Axl and Beatrice (and are we sure these are even their names?) are an elderly couple who visit their adult son, of whom they have only the scantest of remembrances. During their journey, they encounter an honorable knight, a warrior on a quixotic quest, a young boy, a sinister hidden dragon, an evil monk and more, each holding a key to their quest.At its core, The Buried Giant is a fantastical fable, an old-fashioned adventure story with thrills a-plenty. But scratch the surface and you get more. There are allusions to so many other classics: obviously, King Arthur and the Knights of the Roundtable, but also Orpheus and Dante’s Inferno (particularly in the character of Beatrice, the cherished soulmate), and certain childhood fables.We also get an in-depth look at universal themes: memory and forgetfulness, love and aging, war and peace (and how peace can hold “for ever built on slaughter and a magician’s trickery” and what it takes to be a good and a loving person. From Axl to Beatrice: “For what good’s a memory’s returning from the mist if it’s only to push away another? Will you promise me, princess? Promise to keep what you feel for me this moment always in your heart, no matter what you see once the mist’s gone.” The narrative builds as it goes along and the central question – at what price do we remember, at what price do we forget – is captivating and its broader meaning – the collective memory loss of a nation is timely. The message is delivered within the fantasy adventure framework, which will appeal to some, but not all readers. I cannot say I loved it (as I loved Remains of the Day, Never Let Me Go, The Unconsoled and other Ishiguro works) but I admired this achievement. And I must admit to a little misting in my own eyes as the fable finally surrenders its secrets.