In “The Buried Giant” nothing is what it seems. A fable that overbrims with symbolism and allegory. A river to cross that might signify the last journey for an elderly couple on the land of the living. A tale set in post-Arthurian England with knights, dragons, ogres, sword duels and magic spells to convey aspects of human nature that elude all kind of logic, such as love, forgiveness, war and revenge.Blending mythological legend and medieval epic, Ishiguro builds a world were people suffer from general amnesia. That is the price to pay for peace and conviviality between Saxons and Britons. I wonder if many of us do use the same notion to forgive and forget what life and others have inflicted on us. For Axel and Beatrice, the old married couple and protagonists of this novel, forgetfulness is no longer a solution because they ache to remember what happened to their son, the cost of peace has become too high. So they set off on a trip in search of the cause that mists their minds, hoping they’ll recover their stolen memories and the location of their son along with them.This could have been a great adventure story, the kind of rich parable that offers several layers of receding depth to peel off as the novel unfolds its mysteries. But in my opinion, Mr. Ishiguro failed to create a believable setting and he focused rather on making explicit the hidden metaphors, neglecting the form of the narration. And so the characters lacked essence, the dialogues were forced and full of annoying tics and the revelation was discovered too abruptly to be plausible.Mr. Ishiguro is known for his ability to elude genre classification, but it’s precisely the vague quality of this novel that dashed its potentiality. Nevertheless, a few images will remain with me, such as an old couple crossing a river trusting that their true love will beat any wrongdoings they inflicted on each other. Fantasy or no fantasy, this is an undeniable ode to love, trust and memory, and so all in all, a worthwhile reading.