The Buried Giant is a subtle and melancholy reflection on memory and forgetfulness and the roles they play both in the lives of individuals and those of countries and peoples. It is the kind of novel that yields up its secrets gradually, and it’s worth persisting with even if you are not initially convinced. It’s a very distinctive work—distinctive to the point of eccentricity—and the reviews have been accordingly mixed, some very negative. To enjoy it, you have to cede to its peculiar, incantatory rhythms, and its layered, sedimentary way of building up meaning. If you do, the rewards are quite rich. The headline news about this novel, Ishuguro’s first in ten years, is all about its flirtation with the fantasy genre.“Kazuo Ishiguro ventures into Tolkein territory” is how The Guardian headed its review. You shouldn’t let that put you off if you’re not a fan of fantasy literature, any more than you should be put off Never Let Me Go if you’re not drawn to science fiction. It’s true that, at a literal level, The Buried Giant’s setting is pure fantasy. The narrative unfolds in a remote, post-Arthurian England of Britons and Saxons and knights and ogres and evil monks and dragons and pixies (yes, pixies), with all the potential silliness that implies. That doesn’t make The Buried Giant a fantasy novel, though. In some senses, I think Ishiguro is tending to opt for fantastic—and genreish and cliché-ridden—narrative territory in his later novels precisely in order to demote the importance of the literal level in his fiction; he has spoken in interviews of his annoyance at readers taking An Artist of the Floating World as being “about” Japan, or The Remains of the Day “about” upstairs-downstairs English country house life. The Buried Giant isn’t “about” pre-Saxon England in any meaningful sense. The Arthurian setting seems to have been chosen to resonate with the novel’s themes of memory and forgetting—this is both a factually "forgotten" and a mythologically much-remembered time in English history—and also to evoke medieval romance, as a formal model for this kind of fabulistic, semi-allegorical narrative mode.The Buried Giant is interested in the way in which memory shapes national identities, often to devastating and destructive effect. Embedding a forgotten genocide within a period of English fantasy history traditionally mythologized as a golden age of chivalry is a potent way of exploring this theme; and yet it is purely a vehicle. The buried giants and poisoned scapegoats and black, collective guilts that haunt this novel are those of the present-day world.