Beastly by Alex Flinn is a creative, modern telling of the fairy tale Beauty and the Beast. In this book, Flinn develops a twist to the story by narrating the events from the Beast’s perspective but in a current day setting. I was rather pleased with the book in many regards, and I’m looking forward to seeing this book translated to screen ((not just for obvious reasons... ahem...ahem... Prettyface)) but I think there’s an opportunity to see a few themes pulled from Beastly, so I’m curious to see how it turns out. Overall, though, I feel the Beast was punished unfairly. Now yes, I realize that because of his curse, he learned the err of his ways and matured once he was stripped of his beauty and confidence, but if good looks and confidence were his only crime (at age of sixteen) I feel the witch was too flippant with her curse. In the book Kyle/Adrian has what many other people want- money, looks, and everything that labels him hawt and popular. And unfortunately for him, he knows it and plays the part well. Now one might say looks aren’t important and money can’t buy you everything... well if most people had the opportunity to be pretty and wealthy or fugly and poor, I think the choice is pretty obvious and most honest people would choose the former rather than the latter. Kyle ((IMO)) wasn’t preaching or practicing anything different than what most people want, but he spoke the truth out loud and got cursed for it.So pretty much I think it sucked that Kyle was cursed by the witch because he knows he’s hawt and enjoyed flaunting it. Even from Lindy’s perspective, she described Kyle as confident, good looking, fearless, spoke his mind. Yes, he did something shallow toward the witch, but the way it all went down, I call that entrapment. The witch set him up, and he reacted like a guy that just needs some time to mature a bit. I’ve seen some fugly sixteen year olds do worse, so where’s the witch’s curse when you really need it? Did I miss the growth opportunity that Kyle/Adrian experience? Nope, not at all, I caught that loud and clear… I saw him change his ways and I was proud of his development. I just felt bad that he was cursed in the first place and any time the witch made an appearance, I sort of disliked her for bestowing a punishment that wasn’t deserved or quite fair.That’s just my opinion, and I know it’s possibly flawed, but hale aren’t all opinions flawed in some way? ^^Overall though, I enjoyed the book and looking forward to the movie.