As of now, this is the number one most overrated and worst trilogy that I've ever read so far.

“Anoshe brought solace. And hope. And the strength to let go.”

No need for Anoshe, I don’t need any additional strength to let go of this series. Let it be known here that I won’t be reading any more books written by VE Schwab. This is where I must part way with her works. Trust me it’s better for me to do this. For her fans, I’m happy that you love her series but you don’t want to see me rant and rated her books with bad reviews right? I have read all her (Not under Victoria Schwab) book, including the novella ‘Warm Up’ and her books just degrade in quality with each new release for me.'Vicious' being the first and the best one I read from her, it was a one hit wonder and believe me I would’ve continue with the series but the problem is, after reading this trilogy I change my mind. Vicious should’ve ended up as a standalone, it ended perfectly and I hate when authors decided to continue a standalone into a trilogy. Just like ADSOM (A Darker Shade of Mediocre), the first book started and ended well as a standalone and it should’ve stayed that way.To sum up, my experience reading this straight after AGOS (A Gathering of Shit), it’s like wiping my ass with sandpaper instead of a tissue. In other word, a bloody asshole experience.The plot continued straight after the previous book and I seriously thought this book would’ve been better cause it took you into the heat of the action and story right from the beginning but no, as soon as it landed on the 200 pages mark, it became so much worse. To explain this without spoiling anything, this series contained so many plot holes that a Diglett could make a living out of this series.For example, it’s been stated from the first book that Kell lost his memory before he’s adopted into the Maresh family, just when I thought the book was going to tell his story, nope, the book said “fuck you, you’re not getting one” and instead, letting me know that Lila is a damned one of a kind. Apparently mentioning her Mary Sue existence repeatedly is more important than the characters background.I’ll be honest, this book is less infuriating to read compared to AGOS because there’s less emphasis on Lila compared to before but my god this series is the first series that ever made me pray to a fictional character. I kept on praying to Kira Yagami, “Kira, please write Lila’s name. Cause of death: impaled by her own knifes through her mouth.” to end her life every moment she spoke.

“Then why are you smiling?” “Because,” she said, “bad ideas are my favorite kind.” 

OH REALLY!? How about this? Take out your favorite knifes, cut your tongue out or drown yourself in the Arnesian sea. How bowdah for a bad idea? Seems like something you'd enjoy, hmm? Hmm? HMMM!?Apparently being reminded that she’s a badass (pretty sure she literally has a bad ass now) is more crucial to the explanation behind her ultimate Mary Sue developments, there is no clear explanation behind all her powers, her background, NONE! But get this, instead of Kell’s and Lila’s background, VE Schwab decided to let us know about so many side characters that barely made an appearance in the previous books. Why in the world would I care about these side characters that barely exist from before when I couldn’t even care about the main characters already? Use these pages to flesh out the background of the main characters dammit, not providing POV for so many characters that are worthless to the main story.Like the previous book, most of the story took place only in Red London. Seriously, the amount of wasted potential on the world-building of this series too damn huge. In fact, only the first book of the trilogy applied the 4 London concepts appropriately. The main antagonist is also one of the worst antagonists I ever read in a fantasy or any book. Not only he’s like a ghost who’s less scary than Casper, Michelin would’ve made a scarier antagonist compared to this fart, no seriously, look at this beast.The final confrontation is very underwhelming, to say the least. It took more than 500 pages to reach and it ended in less than 40 pages. Instead of a great climax scene, we receive a tedious 50 pages epilogue with cheesy romance.Honestly, this book should’ve received a one star from me but again, I have huge praises towards Holland. This is literally the only redeeming factor of the book for me, unlike all other character, this book actually sheds light on Holland’s background beautifully. Right from his childhood up to why he’s the way he is now. In my opinion, Holland should’ve been the main character of the trilogy. IF every other character received the same treatment as him, this book would’ve been a much better experience. Instead all we get is brooding Kell, Mary Sue who have a fetish with knives and other worthless POV's less important than potatoes.One last thing to mention, Rhy’s development is not bad here, in the first book he seemed like this creature that will literally fuck everything that moves, despite his stupidity in some part of the book, he actually has more personality and development compared to the Kell and Lila.I could go on for so much longer on why this book didn’t work for me but I’ll just end it here. This series drained the energy out of me and now I’m literally exhausted. I seriously thought VE Schwab probably signed a contract with the devil or something during my time of reading this book to make this book reached its fame and praises with this quality. Don’t believe me? Look at the total number of pages of the UK edition, it’s 666.Shade of Magic is easily the worst trilogy I ever read in my entire life so far. It will be hard for me to ever find another series as bad as this. I know I’m on the unpopular opinion side on this trilogy here but I honestly won’t recommend this trilogy for anyone who’s an avid adult fantasy fans. I feel robbed buying the physical books and thinking this will be an adult-oriented trilogy which it definitely isn’t. This is an unpopular and honest opinion of mine, I’m glad that a lot of you love this series but sadly, it’s just not for me.
Series review:
A Darker Shade of Magic: 
3/5 Stars
 A Gathering of Shadows: 
1/5 Stars
A Conjuring of Light: 
2/5 Stars
Shades of Magic: 
6/15 Stars
You can find the rest of my Adult Epic/High fantasy and Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest