I.... don't know what to do with myself. I am so completely overwhelmed with emotions and so far past blown away... and now I'm trying to write a review for one of the greatest stories ever told.

"Love and loss," he said, "are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be."

You guys... if you haven't picked up this series... start it now. As an aspiring author... I pray to get even a sliver of Schwab or Bardugo's brilliance. The writing was absolute perfection. But really quick.. can we just focus on how freaking awesome Schwab is as a person? I don't know if you've seen her twitter... but she's so open and honest about the struggles of being a writer (not to mention hilarious) but then she pumps out something like this book. Wow. Also, I got to meet her at Yallfest. I was in a wheelchair and I couldn't have gotten back to her signing - but she actually took time to come out to me. Victoria... *virtual hug*Anyway, since I'm barely able to even function (I'm still a blubbering mess after finishing this book...) I'm just going to summarize a mess of words/statements below and hope it makes sense.Be ready because the moment you open this book... you'll hit the ground running. It picks up literally seconds where the second left off... and it doesn't slow down. The first 20-30% was non stop craziness... and it was wonderful and painful and entirely too stressful and I found myself screaming and laughing and I don't even know.. you guys... I don't even know.The only slow moments in this ENTIRE book were the flashbacks - and there were lots of little ones all throughout. They were very core to character development and I actually really enjoyed them. I literally cannot even begin to talk about the plot. I'm going to refrain from giving away any details. But I'll say this- I really liked the first book though I felt it was slow at times. I LOVED the second as it took the series to a whole new level of emotional turmoil. This one just blew me away. The pacing was perfect (as I said, VERY fast paced, only slowing during flash backs) and full of surprises (and stress). I was so attached to everyone (even the side characters) that I was literally racing through the pages so now I'm going to have to go back and reread for details. I've highlighted about 30 quotes. I've cried and laughed and screamed and now I'm completely exhausted. 

"We don't choose what we are, but we choose what we do."

To summarize, here's what you can expect.1. Blood. Repeatedly. (Like... half of this book is fight scenes I feel like.)2. New and interesting POVs.3. Kiss your heart goodbye.4. Tears. Lots.5. Stress and anxiety because you'll love EVERYONE6. Pirate ships. Magic. New magical abilities. 7. Brilliance. On every page.So all I have left is to sit here and proclaim my love for the cast.Lila is her usual BAMF self. She had so many witty one liners and she was endless entertainment. I love love loved her contribution to the story - she kinda has a character arc but kinda doesn't. She's learned to let people in, but at the same time, she's so true to herself. Some of the highlights for me were obviously moments with Kell- but also with Alucard. (Ok, brb, need to cry because of all the emotional beautifulness.) Kell. I literally cannot. Precious smol- must be protected at all costs. This guy. The second book made me feel for him SO much. He's so selfless that even Rhy gives him crap about being so perfect. Oh my gosh Kell and Rhy- strongest brother relationship I've ever read. I need to cry again. Also Kell and Alucard banter was EVERYTHING. And then the parental issues... you'll just have to see.Rhy - easily one of my all time favorite characters. He' so freaking hilarious and sassy and I feel like we would be best friends. He's easily as selfless as Kell, though he doesn't even see it. A little reckless, but he can't help it. HOLLAND. Holy freaking crap of the world. I did not expect to care about him so much. I can't even function right now. BYE. Alucard. I can't form words. BYE. Ugh. The whole entire cast. Even the side characters like Lenos and Hostra .. and oh my gosh the whole Maresh family... I'm just... I want to cry because every character was so beautifully done. The ending does not disappoint. Everything was wrapped up - and I'm just sitting here thinking... what now? What do I even do with myself? Do I pick it up and read it again? Do I sit here and grieve because its over? Ugh. Lastly, I HIGHLY recommend the audiobook version!! The second book and this book are narrated by Michael Kramer and Kate Reading and they are both wonderful - but especially Kate Reading for Delilah. Seriously I was LOLing so much at her sarcastic wit. You guys... read this series. OH OH is this a Leigh Bardugo / Six of Crows reference? Ahahah.

"People spoke of love as if it were an arrow. A thing that flew quick, and always found its mark."

LAST THING SORRY. I made a playlist - check it out ;) https://open.spotify.com/user/brilia/...My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy