4.25 StarsOverview: 
“Anoshe was a word for strangers in the street, and lovers between meetings, for parents and children, friends and family. It softened the blow of leaving.” 
Okay, I know my rating is picky and oddly specific, but it’s true. I enjoyed this more than AGOS (making it my favorite of the series) but it's still just shy of 5 stars. In fact, that's what I rated it in a blind-emotional fury immediately after I finished. Because there was a lot I loved. ...But also some stuff I didn't. Another BR with Sana. (Even though she hated AGOS, smh.)Pros:I need to read another Schwab book like now. This series was my first experience with her writing and I love it. She utilizes crisp sentences and sensory details so I can completely visualize the scene. She expertly lets the scene rise and fall and is a master at setting tone.Listen and let me tell you about my two new children: Rhy Maresh and Alucard Emery. I JUST REALLY LOVE BOTH OF THEM OKAY. Rhy especially has a ton of character development. I laughed with him at the beginning and here my heart broke for him. He has to step up so much and really come into his own as a leader and I just love it. Alucard and Kell bickering like old women is my new aesthetic. I could have honestly read a whole book about this, I swear. (But I also loved getting to see more of Luc’s backstory and taking him more seriously)The ending works very well. No spoilers, but everyone ends up in believable places and there’s certainly ramifications. Speaking of which, the villain here is kind of awesome. Not quite the direction I was expecting for this series, but it works very well and I loved getting inside his head.There are certain scenes the whole series seemed to be building towards and they are tense. Very well done and some of these really blew my mind. Yes, hello it is I. Still loving Holland and just silently weeping in the background. Just such a dynamic character with such a strong presence on the page. Cons:At almost 700 pages, this is a little long. Places seemed overstuffed while others seemed off-topic, and there just some major pacing issues. The first 100 pages or so take off right after the explosive ending of AGOS, but then everything veers one direction and then another and sort of clambers together by the ending. I really liked a lot of these elements, but couldn’t help by feel they were a little random? This floating market idea was super cool and I loved the way it played out, but it literally came out of nowhere.There were several characters who were expanded upon here—the king, queen, visitors from neighboring cities and others. While I really enjoyed their perspectives and how they impacted the story, it felt a little out of place to just now learn about these characters. I wish a lot of this started in the second book. Listen: Lila is a fun character, but she has no development. She seems almost exactly the same here as she did at the beginning of ADSOM. She definitely is fun, and I love how capable she is. But at some point the narrative switched to continually telling me what a bad-ass she is. She felt ridiculously over-powered. Why did the second book include a whole plot about magic having consequences and Kell warning her about her recklessness if nothing comes of it???In Conclusion:Anoshe -----------------------------I'm here for Rhy and Luc. ❤️❤️(And maybe even Kell) (Everyone but Lila, probably)