Ehhhhhh.
I finished this one a while back, but I just couldn't decide how I felt about it.I mean, it was ok. Nothing was horribly wrong, and I certainly didn't feel pissed off when I closed the book. It just left me with this vaguely meh feeling.Like...why did I read all of this?This was, at 624 pages, a HUGE book. <--for me!I know some of you read massive tomes every night before bed, but I usually snack on comic books or fluffy romance novels, so when these bigguns don't deliver I feel a tad disappointed.And I'm not actually saying it didn't deliver, because look at all the bjillion 5 star reviews! Apparently, I'm one of the few people on the planet that had a lukewarm reaction to A Conjuring of Light, so please don't take this review as a slam on the book. It's a solid finish to the trilogy, there are no dangling threads left out there, and I was (for the most part) satisfied by the way it wrapped up.Schwab is a fantastic storyteller, and since she's managed to write my oldest son's favorite story ever --> Vicious, I'm afraid if I say anything less than glowing I'll have to sleep with one eye open. You never know with kids these days...*ducks*Still, I did have a few issues. I'll tag the ones that are possible spoilers...The two spoilery things I wasn't crazy about were Holland's ending, and Kells magic pains.First, Holland. I guess not everyone gets a happy ending, but man! That dude never got to have a good day in his LIFE! Everyone he ever knew was HORRIBLE to him, then he was tortured for years by those psycho twins, and after sacrificing his life once already...everyone in Red London still hates his guts. It was bad enough that the poor guy ended up slinking off to his own dimension to die (and maybe rejuvenate his London? Vague, much?), but why in the hell didn't Kell explain to everyone that Holland had been unable to control his actions while the Dane twins were alive. I mean, that would have gone a long way toward Lila forgiving him for that dude's death. And, yes, he was responsible for the evil dude escaping Black London, but give me a fucking break! The guy was half dead, stranded in a different dimension (after Kell killed him, btw!), and he thought letting that thing possess him might save his people. Can we not cut the poor fella any slack?To me, it felt like he was just the whipping boy so that there could be a tragic hero...who wasn't Kell.Which brings us to Kell and his ouchie magic.Why? Why does it now hurt every time he does magic? I mean, I know why...I read it! But it just seemed tacked on so that no one could accuse Schwab of going easy on her main character. So, yeah, he lives. But it hurts when he does magic now. Whatever.I guess the other thing I wasn't crazy about was Lila and Kell's relationship. It never felt genuine or even really romantic. I don't know why, but they just seemed like a very dull couple. And I think Schwab can write depth to her romantic attachments because Rhy and Alucard had depth.P.S. This has nothing to do with the story, but I could not for the life of me stop thinking: Alucard is Dracula spelled backward!My kids used to LOVE The Batman vs. Dracula movie and there was this one scene in it that kept running through my mind during this entire book...Dun, dun, duuun! *gasp!*Anyway. I guess the rest of it was fine. There was some great stand out moments that I really enjoyed, and I think anyone who has read the first 2 books should be satisfied with this last installment. Overall though, I can't say I this would be a series/trilogy that I'd want to reread.