"The Magic of Recluce" is the first book in L.E. Modesitt's long-running "Recluce" saga. This series has grown to encompass 14 books.The denizens of Modesitt's world are all human beings. The magic system of this world is based on order and chaos. Chaos wizards enhance the chaos in people and things while order wizards enhance the order in people and things. Chaos is classified as an "evil" magic and order as a "good" magic. It's a pretty cool and logical system, although I was disappointed that each branch of magic had a morality attached to it. To me, it would seem that the magics themselves would be amoral, and the morality of their use dependent upon the individual using the magic, with a balance between order and chaos being the preferred, happy medium.The PlotRecluce is an island nation consisting of order wizards and those who live under their rule. Citizens who are dissatisfied with this order in any way have two choices: Exile or Dangergeld. Lerris, our protagonist, decides on a dangergeld, which is a form of public service where a citizen is trained to survive in the world outside Recluce and then sent on some kind of mission. Presumably, while performing this mission, the dangergelder will come to find his or her place in the world and come back to Recluce, or find a spot in the outside world to live after the mission is accomplished.Lerris gets trained, leaves Recluce, and the fun begins.The GoodAs stated before, the magic system is logical and cool: Order magic is more focused on strengthening that which already exists and Chaos magic is more focused on weakening existing things.Other reviews have said that the story keeping track of the character's money and their financial struggles was dull. However, I liked this aspect of it. Too often, stories depict square-jawed heroes venturing forth with no consideration as to the financial or logistical elements of such a journey. Either the protagonist is independently wealthy or the author just doesn't write about how a character lives day to day. In the Recluce novels, the characters have to work to survive.I liked how Modesitt would change writing styles during the story. When Lerris, the protagonist, is narrating, Modesitt writes in first person past tense ("I walked down the muddy road"). When scenes without Lerris occur in the story, Modesitt changes to third person present tense ("She walks down the muddy road"). I thought this was really cool and original.The BadI didn't like that Order was equated with good and Chaos was equated with bad. I prefer the morality of magic being determined by the person using it. In order for the world to work properly, it seems to me that both Order and Chaos is needed, working in a kind of balance; not only in the world, but in an individual as well. The novel kind of addresses this, but not really to my satisfaction.Another place the novel falls flat are the characters. The only really compelling character is Lerris, the protagonist, which is certainly a good thing. The other notable characters were the antagonist and the gray wizard, Justen. Pretty much all of the other characters seemed to meld together and it was difficult to tell one from another.ConclusionIf you are an avid fantasy novel reader, you should check the Recluce series out. It's not the "flash bang" of the more popular series out there, but it is an entertaining read.I wouldn't recommend the Recluce novels to dabblers in fantasy reading, or to those looking for a gateway into fantasy literature. There are parts of this novel that are just too dry.If you're looking for your next fantasy fix, though, I say try out the first novel. If it's to your liking, you may want to try the rest.