I started the Farseer trilogy 4 years ago (2017, it certainly doesn't feel like 4 years went by since then) and although I really enjoyed Assassin's Apprentice, I didn't continue this series. I was at a point in my life where I started too many series only to drop them/put them on hold. I knew I wanted to continue the Farseer one day, it was just a matter of when. I'm glad a few of my friends wanted to read it so we BR, and it was very helpful to me since I remembered close to nothing from the first book. I'm happy to say that I very much enjoyed this book and it made me feel a lot of hate towards the bad guy (been a while since I hated a villain with passion). It was also full of plot twists I didn't expect and memorable secondary characters. It's not a perfect book but it made me wish I never stopped reading this trilogy. BRing this book has been very fun however and I'm certain, made me appreciate this book so there's that!Let's start with Hobb's prose appreciation. She's a very talented writer with beautiful writing -for the most part (I'll get to that later). She also made me feel scared. Authors rarely manage to do that. Every time Fitz saw a white ship, I felt his terror. I also quickly loved Buckkeep again even if I barely remember anything about it.Another highlight in this book for me was the secondary characters. Patience, Verity, Kettricken, Lacey, and most importantly, the Fool. You know an author is skilled when they don't add another perspective just to make you like characters/show you more things. To be clear, sometimes it is necessary to the story. However, sadly, many times it isn't. I loved them just like I loved Fitz and I'll remember them as one of the best secondary characters set I've yet to come across (without having their own chapters). They're certainly three-dimensional and easy to care about. And Regal, who I hated the man.. I'm looking forward to seeing what will Robb do with our secondary characters after that ending.The pace of this book was certainly slow, I had a difficult time focusing while reading some chapters. Yet, I couldn't stop reading when we reading the last 30% of the book, the pace increased and the stakes became much higher. It made the first 2 parts worth it. Liking the characters also certainly helped.Let's not forget Nighteyes!! The wolf is so selfless and cares immensely about Fitz.. I was so happy seeing more "caring" let's say towards him. He really needs that.The thing that annoyed me the most was sadly Molly. I hated her arc completely. I have yet to come across a person who liked the girl. She's so annoying, my God. Fitz's scenes (and dreams) about her got really repetitive and didn't add anything to the story. He was so mature in some places, I was surprised to remember he's only 15 yo giving such wise advice. But when it came to Molly, he came a lovesick teen. And you know, it's normal but we did not need to read about them so much. Did I mention how annoying Molly is? Her mere existence irritates me. I do not look forward to seeing more of Molly. I hope I don't. She didn't add anything to the story, only showed how naive and stupid she is. I'm pretty sure if she had a different name, I would've hated her less. I mean Molly, how unoriginal is this name in fantasy?Briefly, this book was a pleasant surprise, I didn't expect to enjoy it so much. The characters were well-written and the story if slow-paced, had a rewarding ending. I'm still not sure how I feel about a particular part of the ending but overall, it was good. I'm very worried about reading Assassin's Quest now because of the reviews. But at least I have the Liveship Traders trilogy to look forward to. I also hope to see some elderlings and dragons soon. A very fun BR with Milica and Serge. It's an excellent book for group discussions.