The pace of Assassin's Apprentice was slow. In Royal Assassin, the pace of the story is even slower. Despite the slow pace, this book (and its predecessor) managed to stay my interest in the story. The world building in this book is done brilliantly. The author vividly depicted a life at the royal court, with colorful narratives and a carefully executed, suspenseful plot.The characterization in this book remains a strength worthy to be praised. The characters in this book are believable. The author allowed her protagonist, Fitz, to make mistakes and suffer the consequences. Fitz is a worthy hero. He ticks off some of the usual fantasy checkboxes by being a royal bastard and a wielder of special powers. But Hobb also cripples him—twice. First when his powers with the Skill are nearly burned out of him, and again when he’s forced to take two rounds of poison in rapid succession. He learns to manage the resulting weakness and seizures, but rarely overcomes them entirely. The supporting cast is just as endearing. Burrich is honorable to the point of misery, Patience is flighty but genuine, the Fool is as quick-witted as he is loyal … It’s a good group. I also want to share, that I found writings in this book a pleasure to read. Like in Assassin's Apprentice, Robin Hobb wrote beautifully and powerfully. Usually, I am not overly fuzzy about the quality of prose in a novel. But in the case of Farseer trilogy, I appreciate the excellent writings, because it enhanced the charm of the story.All in all, a stellar read. And there’s so many directions the rest of this series can head off in. I have absolutely no idea what to expect next, and it’s written in a way that anyone can pick up the novel and not have to worry about not having read the first installment. I recommend this to all those Name of the Wind lovers out there. This is right up your alley.In all sincerity, I could not find much to complain about Royal Assassin. In my opinion, this book is a solid sequel to Assassin's Apprentice. While the pace in this book may be slow, but in the last 50 pages, every plot device was triggered simultaneously, crescendoed to a mind-blowing conclusion that ended with a cliffhanger. At this point, I am eager to venture into the last book to this trilogy, Assassin's Quest, which will be the final chapter to this moving tale.