Buddy read with Alexa!Come, hunt with me, the invitation whispers in my heart. Leave the pain behind and let your life be your own again. There is a place where all time is now, and the choices are simple and always your own.Wolves have no kings.After the harrowing experience in the Mountain Kingdom, FitzChivalry returns to Buckkeep and the Farseer court. Having barely survived his first real mission as a royal assassin, Fitz first vowed to renounce his oath to King Shrewd and abandon the shadowy world of intrigue completely, but his destiny eventually takes him back to the very place where his journey began, and back to the life of an assassin…Royal Assassin is more of what happened in Assassin’s Apprentice. We have the same enemy raiding the shores of the Six Duchies, inflicting the same horrors on the same people. We have the same antagonist, leashed but not put down. We have the same protagonist taking his lessons from the same people and essentially doing exactly what he did in the first book. And except for a character or two, there is little new.For the first seventy percent of this book (yes, seventy), nothing happened. The first book was also incredibly slow to get the plot moving, but really not this slow, and in that book it had a purpose: introduction of characters, plot and setting. In this one there is no excuse.The book also includes a lot of horrible characters. Fitz himself has become less likeable; Molly reminded me of a combination of Nynaeve and Egwene from Wheel of Time (to those of you who haven’t read my WoT reviews, that is about as bad as it can get); Chade has apparently become a stupid old man who is unable to see that his loyalty to his king must come before his loyalty to other members of the royal family; and the Fool has become blinded by his devotion to the same king.That does not mean that the book was completely horrible. Hobb’s writing is good, and at least some of the characters are interesting enough to read about. And while the first seventy percent were utterly and completely boring, the last thirty were the complete opposite, with intrigue and death and excitement around every corner. Another positive thing was Fitz developing his abilities with the Wit, and even finding a strong companion who was one of the most interesting characters of the book.Overall though, this was in my eyes a rather typical case of second book syndrome. The first book was great and I hope the third one will live up to it, but Royal Assassin was unfortunately just not good enough.