Throughout the course of this book it looked set to gain two stars from me, but the ending ensured the confiscation of one of these. In fact, it almost deserves a minus rating because of it.The story was extremely slow in starting, and never really picked up enough pace to make it interesting. What i knew of the storyline beforehand was basically that it was going to be a re-telling of the cinderella story from the perspective of one of the stepsisters. What i didn't realise was that the fairy godmother element was removed in order to make the story seem like it could actually have happened in real life. I applauded the idea of this initially, but the unrealistic, and frankly diabolical ending flew back in the face of the idea.  The epilogue reveals Ruth, the supposedly disabled stepsister, to have been faking her disabilities the whole time, and to actually be the one telling the story and the perpetrator of at least two of the heinous crimes committed in the story, namely that of blinding her mother and setting a fire in a house where hundreds of people were gathered for a ball, just to destroy a painting. Whilst i can't blame her for taking revenge on her evil mother, the fire-setting was completely reckless and anyone with any sense would know they were putting innocent lives at risk, so was she evil too or still a bit slow after all? And why would anyone keep such a charade going for so long? She actually kept up the pretense of not being able to speak but to utter indistinguishable noises right up to adulthood, played with toys, cried and wailed and let her little sister lead her around and look after her. The fact she has no shame in all this means she was either mentally-ill or horribly twisted. Everyone seems to have their own theory on this, but i don't find any to be redeeming of this shocking twist which makes light of severe disability. Also, the preoccupation of some of the characters with imps and changelings is tedious and makes no sense. Why take out fairy godmothers and magic mice to make your story seem realistic and then add in other mythical creatures? This story is all too dark and sinister for my liking. Cinderella is one of my least favourite fairytales, and i was willing to hear the story coming from another angle, but this book just made me appreciate the original tale more. I may now go and watch the disney version, and sing along with 'bibbity-bobbity-boo'! And i won't be reading 'Wicked' anytime soon.Oh, i have just remembered a positive about this book. The title is very clever, and although not exactly unique due to all of the recent copycat 'confessions of...' titles, it was original to start with.