The story is set in Holland during the 17th century. It is the retelling of Cinderella fairytale. Of cause with less fantasy and magic. In the beginning, I sympathised with Iris character, the protagonist. Her father was murdered, she was often left with no food, fleeing from their birth land to becoming cleaners for the painter schoonmaker. But as the story evolve, Iris was no less than her mother when it came to being manipulative and ungrateful. I felt sadness for Clara plight. Her mother’s death, reader will learn towards the end that Margaret was the one who killed the pregnant owner of the house. Real or her melancholy playing out when she was in distress, it was hard to digest. How could Clara even continue to live in the house with her mother’s alleged murderer. There was also lines about going to the grave to remove Hanrika jewellery. Lines about Clara father not knowing Margaret confession and how the sisters chose not to tell him so that they had a roof over their heads of cause. How extreme and low of the fishers family. Indeed opportunist at every turn. How desperate could the character Margaret get. She got loss in her vain attempt to provide the basics for her ugly daughters to becoming one who flatters herself around town with pompous garb. Of cause, as a reader the business going into a loss was good. Margaret deserved it. More pain as the story went on, writing was slow paced. In some chapters, a situation is explained in great detail and you look forward to more but it comes to a sudden end. Felt incomplete. I find the Fisher family were ungrateful pestilent people. Bringing misery and misfortune wherever they go. They were ungrateful to their host, to schoonmaker, to Clara, to the dresser who made their gowns to their creditors. They used everyone. Ruth and Iris character lacked virtue. Ruth played dumb, Ruth was jealous of poor Clara, Ruth burned the the tulip flower painting. Ungrateful yet again but not surprising for she is evil Margaret child. I don t get why the writer felt the need to challenge the traditional tale of beauty going against all odds to be with her price charming ? little was mention about Clara and the prince towards the end again a sudden halt to that storyline. But to portray beauty as a curse was confusing to me and it took me time to adjust to complete the book.