Schönheit vs SchoonheidBeauty is in the eye of the culture. An individual’s outlook on the world includes their unique perspective of beauty, and is one of the remarkable topics implied in both Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister by Gregory Maguire, and “Aschenputtel” by the Brother’s Grimm. Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister is a Cinderella story retold from a Dutch stepsister’s perspective. “Aschenputtel” by the Brother’s Grimm is a German version of the Cinderella story. There are similarities and differences between these two stories, specifically those of natural beauty versus magical beauty, how perceptions of beauty are reflected in personality, and beauty’s effect on culture and society.Both of the stories clearly imply beauty in some way; however, they both present beauty in various ways. One contains an enchanted natural world and presents magic to imply beauty, while the other indicates realistic beauty. In “Aschenputtel”, Cinderella sings a song to the tree while weeping. The tree hears it and sends pigeons to help her: “The bird threw a gold and silver dress down to her, and slippers embroidered with silk and silver (Grimm 2). Two symbols in “Aschenputtel”, the tree and the pigeons, emphasize the beauty of humans, or in this case Cinderella, with the help of their magical power in nature. Opposingly, in Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, the wildflowers are a symbol of nature’s beauty. Iris is asked by Schoonmaker to be his model in a painting of wildflowers. Later in time, when the painting is all done, Iris gets an opportunity to see the painting, and finds herself to be less attractive than she is in real life. Casper, who is the apprentice of Schoonmaker, tells Iris that “‘he’s taken and flattened all that is attractive in you’” (Maguire 51). It is because the master wanted to have heightened contrast between the two objects, the wildflowers and Iris.The master makes Iris plain and unappealing to make the flowers look more alluring than they are: “They’re about simple values, which are natural, not artificial or cultivated” (Maguire 51). These examples demonstrate that beauty is signified with natural features. Both the tree in “Aschenputtel” and the wildflowers in Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister are significant factors to the two plots and characters in the stories, representing beauty.Secondly, a person’s character is often affected by their beauty. In “Aschenputtel”, there are two stepsisters and a stepmother who are “beautiful and fair of face, but vile and black of heart” (Grimm 1). Their father “bought beautiful dresses, pearls and jewels” (Grimm 1) to help them decorate themselves and make them prettier. The stepmother treated Cinderella with cruelty when she said "No, Cinderella, thou hast no clothes and thou canst not dance; thou wouldst only be laughed at" (Grimm 2). The stepmother and stepsisters are full of confidence and sassiness, with the attitude of looking down on people other than themselves. They exploit and take advantages of their temporary appearance and are careless about their inner beauty. Contrastingly, in Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, Clara is overprotected and exploited by her parents. Since she had a beautiful appearance, her parents use her by painting her portrait to make money. Even when “Clara refuses to sit for the sketches anymore” (Maguire 100), her parents are undaunted. She is just a monkey in a zoo who is there for the visitors, and as a result, She becomes a person who is very timid and temperamental. Clara hides herself in her room or the kitchen because she is afraid of leaving her comfort zone, and being recognized in public. She feels uncomfortable when she gets attention, and she rather “be alone and to play by herself” (Maguire 85). Even though both characters are beautiful on the outside, their inner color personalities are very different.Not only do perceptions of beauty affect a person’s characteristics, but they also have an impact on culture and society. Cinderella(also known as Clara in Confession of an Ugly Stepsister) is the one who is always getting attention in both versions of the Cinderella story. This is because Cinderella is the perfect example of beauty in society in both stories. In “Aschenputtel”, this is directly indicated when Cinderella presents herself at the ball and “everyone was astonished at her beauty” (Grimm 3). The prince notices her, and he “instantly took her by the hand and danced with no one but her” (Grimm 3). The prince is attracted by Cinderella’s outer beauty, without knowing her personality as a human. Perhaps, the ball itself demonstrates the importance of outward appearances in the culture, because the purpose of the ball is to find a bride for the prince judging only by appearance. In Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, Clara is the one who always has to stand next to van den Meer to sell her beauty, and to be exploited by him. Everybody who does business with van den Meer is obsessed with Clara and the flower that she is holding. The quote “‘look--you want to see beauty,’ says van den Meer, a proud father, ‘look at her. Have you laid eyes upon a more pleasing figure? She’ll grow to be a fine woman’” (Maguire 75), shows that the society have standardized beauty which depends on her. Van den Meer’s “appreciation of his daughter makes Iris’s eyes sting” (Maguire 75) because his praise towards Clara’s beauty indirectly ridicules Iris’s appearance, which he thinks is not pretty enough. Van den Meer doesn’t care about people other than Clara, because she is the one who makes him money. The two cultures in these stories have differences, but the impact of beauty is applied in some way to both. Beauty is a powerful factor influencing many aspects in life, and is not just something that can be justified as superficial thing. The two authors, Gregory Maguire and the Brother’s Grimm, wrote two different versions of the story of the Cinderella with different interpretations of beauty. The analyses illustrated above identifies the theme of realistic beauty and unrealistic beauty, differing personalities formed by outer beauty, and the impact of beauty on society. After considering two authors’ notion towards the beauty, now is the time for you to think about; how is the beauty valued for you?