Freaking awesome re-read!**OKAY, SPOILERS FOR THOSE THAT HAVEN'T READ IT YET**Reading this was cray because I keep looking to see if I had read it before! I thought why is so much of this familiar. Then I thought, "Oh yeah, stupid, you own and have watched all of the current shows!" <--- I mean duh! I was going to give this one 4 stars because it's the one where they kill more of the Stark's and wolf and I wanted to go in, turn into my own dragon and burn them all down! but then . . . THIS ↓Oh happy day! Oh happy day! What joy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ❤I love so many people on the show and in the books. But my favorites are: 1) Jon ❤2) Tyrion3) Arya4) Daenerys5) Brienne6) Sam7) Sansain no particular order because I tried that one already. In the book there were certain scenes I liked better than I did in the shows. I love the shows and I love the books so far. But, in this book there were more parts with dialogue that I really enjoyed. My favorite in this book were the scenes between Brienne and Jaime. I know, you didn't see that coming right? I mean you would think it would have been all the parts about Jon since he's my hunneh bunneh but nope. I liked his parts better in the show and nooo it's not because I can look at him in the show. Although. . . nevermind. I just felt like there was so much more to Brienne and Jaime's time together in the book. I wished he would have quit calling her ugly and such though. Jerk, but they did seem to be friends of a sort at the end of their time and I liked that. The things you miss in any book is the commentary in someone's head. Of course some I would rather not read about. But I really loved the parts where we could read Tyrion's thoughts about Sansa. They were sweet and true and sad in many ways. Overall I enjoyed the book because of the parts with Joffrey dying. Bwhahahahaahahahahahahah! And the parts with Brienne and Jaime. I loved all of my other characters parts but these were the highlight moments for me. Or course you know when you get rid of one evil b•stard, along comes another one!MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List