When I first read A Game of Thrones  I hated Jaime Lannister. Now, I think he’s awesome. If someone would have told me then, that by book three I would consider him one of my favourite characters, I’d have likely pushed them out of the moon door. It’s quite surprising that George R.R Martin actually changed him around like this. Well, I say change around. What I actually mean is showed the reader what he actually is. Never before, with any novel, have I had my feelings of pure hatred completely collapse in on them self and turn into pity and admiration.     George R.R. Martin achieved this astonishing reversal by showing us the man as he saw himself. Instead of ignorant Ned Stark condemning him in his point of view, we see how Jaimie thinks. Indeed, we see his side of the story and why he committed his Kingslaying. It was no ill thought out act or cowardly murder; it was a killing of pure honour and decency. Surprising, I know. I was convinced by Ned Stark’s judgment. I, too, saw a backstabber and murderer. I was glad when the veil was lifted because never before has a character been so wrongly perceived by so many. Jaimie Lannister, certainly, deserves more recognition for his act. But, like a man of honour, he kept the details to himself and cared not what the world thought. He knew that he exacted justice and that’s all that mattered. Jaime reached for the flagon to refill his cup. "So many vows...they make you swear and swear. Defend the king. Obey the king. Keep his secrets. Do his bidding. Your life for his. But obey your father. Love your sister. Protect the innocent. Defend the weak. Respect the gods. Obey the laws. It's too much. No matter what you do, you're forsaking one vow or the other.”   And then there’s Tyrion’s little fiasco with that crossbow. I mean, wow! I did not see that coming. I literally cheered the very first time I read that; it was so perfect and so necessary. The way the chapter ended was superb also. I’d put the quote in, but that would be a big plot spoiler. I guess there is only so far you can push someone before they finally snap, and lash out against the world. Tyrion could only take so much abuse and disuse from the ones who should actually love him. What he did was totally justified and necessary for his own survival. He simply couldn’t go on anymore with that kind of treatment. The end he provides to his victim’s name will well, and truly, sully his reputation. It was most apt to finish him in such a way. What an awful, and deserved, way to go. Also, I think the blow of the red wedding has somewhat softened over the years. Initially, it is upsetting and horribly unjust, but then you read the build-up of it again and see it in a different light. It is clear that it was completely King Rob’s fault. He caused it; he should have known better than to renegade on such an important deal. It was pure folly. He left himself completely vulnerable. But, he isn’t to blame completely; he was very young after all. Maybe one day the Starks will be avenged completely. Well, I think it’s obvious that there is only on person with the capabilities to do it.  By this point in the series Dany has truly cast aside her fear. She has realised who she is and what she is capable of; she has become the dragon her brother was attempting to be. But, for all her power, she lacks wisdom. It isn’t a lack of wisdom born of stupidity, but through a lack of experience. She needs someone to guide her and help her realise her destiny; she needs someone well versed in the game to lead her steps, and insure her politics are not completely detrimental. In short, she needs someone braver than Jorah and someone more cunning than Barristan; she needs a strong right hand. She needs an ally who can truly save her. It’s just a shame that the television show has beat Martin to it! However, she still has her own natural leadership abilities. She has taken an army and freed a city; she has found her voice and her confidence. But, she still needs help. Dragons are a powerful weapon, though they will only take her so far. They’ve saved her in this novel, and they will save her again. But, it takes more than Fire and Blood to win a throne, though it does help.  This, for me, is the strongest novel in the series so far. The characters have evolved and become figures of investment. The characters in this are truly brilliant. It’s why this series is so damn good. It’s very difficult to actually pick a favourite because with each novel my opinions seem to change as the characters do. It’s also very hard to give each of them a mention in a review! I didn’t even talk about Jon Snow. Never mind. I think it’s clear what my opinion of this book is. I do love this series! A Song of Ice and Fire 1. A Game of Thrones- A life chnaging five stars2.A Clash of Kings- An Impish five stars3. A Storm of Swords - A Lannister loving five stars 4.  A Feast for Crows - A flat 3.5 stars