There are many here among usWho think that life is but a joke.Bob DylanWhen Gulliver first came to the light of day in the climate of a more genteel, and historically Georgian reader than those who read Pilgrim's Progress in the previous century, echoes of its hero, Christian, must have resounded through his or her mind!This fantasy has haunted my steps and dogged my days all my life. It represents a Pilgrim's Progress for me, too - as well as for Dean Swift, being an Anglican priest - through the insalubriously and most lugubriously harrowing paysage moralisé that was my, and Swift's life.But placed in historical context it’s a harangue against religious narrow-mindedness, liberalism, and intellectual freedom. A mixed kettle of fish!Nevertheless, the politely Houyhnimic, and thus archly knowing Pilosopher-Kings of Georgian Britain judged Swift to be rather odd, as their modern counterparts, too, judged me. For we were both bipolar.Just outta bounds. Beyond simple decency. A Stranger to intellectual progress. Why?You see, when a kid first wakes up and chooses ethical behaviour, he often sees himself as catapulted into a Land of Liliputians. If he rebels, he is blacklisted by their establishment, tied to the ground with tiny inextricably knotted threads while he sleeps, and roundly excoriated by their tiny, tinnily middle-class voices.In short, he is just too proud by a very unhealthy margin. In my case, to make matters worse, I just chuckled at them. Hence my bipolarity. I needed an outlet!If he still is not heeled, he will then be courted and thus grossed out by the humunguously odorific Brobdingnagians. That’s his second temptation, and it is seldom met with diffidence. Gulliver, though, reacts with panic. As did I.If still unrepentant and self-willed, his next stop will be Laputia and its surrounding archipilago of islands. For he must at least learn humility.There he will be pegged as a danger both to himself and polite society, when he continues to value himself over others.Refusing to recant, his final stop is the Isle of enervately intellectual Houyhmnms. Who disdain him. And rightly so, for they dwarf him in their paradoxical intelligence.He will be be from thenceforth exiled into ignominy - up crap creek without a paddle: he is condemned to SWIM back to Ireland. Thank heaven, then, for the small mercy (a canoe) he is then afforded!And like Gulliver, crushed, I was finally humble.Oh, and it's not a fantasy.It’s the enforced progress of a half-baked pilgrim, who STILL only Regresses until he learned. That was me.John Bunyan woulda just sighed and said that’s LIFE for us Christians, as we grow in faith, pride intact at first.If we want to be saved, we must swallow that pride. Holus bolus.We must not live a life that is a Slaughterhouse Five -For you MAY be saved (and maybe not, if you haven't survived the trial).For just like Billy Pilgrim, we still have a chronically Enlarged Ego that has simply gotta go:By letting the Lord “trample out His wine press where His Grapes of Wrath are stored.” And believe me, we all deserve it. But how.And so we reach Heaven.The end of all our exploringWill be to arrive at the place we startedAnd know the place for the first time.