Jonathan Swift (1667 – 1745) writes towards the end of his book:...an author perfectly blameless, against whom the tribe of answerers, considerers, observers, reflecters, detecters, remarkers, will never be able to find matter for exercising their talents.Had Swift known GR he would probably have included “reviewers” in the above sentence. This thought warns me against continuing any further with my review.But the Travels of Gullible Gulliver (1726) have made me laugh like no other book for a long time. And I want to share this.The introduction in my edition by Michael Foot was almost as funny. For Foot surveys the history of the reaction to Swift’s book, from its immediate huge success and popularity during the Enlightenment to the deprecating opinion shared by many, but not all (John Keats was one of the exceptions), in puritanical Victorian times. They were affronted by the shameful indecency their own minds projected onto Swift’s lines.Some of the quotes from Victorian responses made me laugh as heartily as Swift’s words... a monster, gibbering shrieks and gnashing imprecations against mankind – tearing down all shreds of modesty, past all sense of manliness and shame; filthy in word, filthy in thought, furious, raging, obscene.His rehabilitation started during WW1, beginning with a lecture in Cambridge in 1917. Gulliver’s attacks on war and the idiocies of nationalism would have met welcoming ears in that university hall. Some rejection still lingered for a while and surprisingly both George Orwell and Aldous Huxley were highly critical of Swift.Nowadays, many aspects of this book appeal strongly to our more cynical and detached age. What we have now is filtered by the Disney Cartoons and The Economist has chosen Gulliver as the title to its Travel Section. And of course, the company Yahoo also got its name from the most detestable of Swift’s characters. As everyone knows this is a book about travelling. The popularity of two of its four parts and their easy refashioning into tales for children disguise the fact that the book was written as a parody of the then prevailing travel writing. If for us Travel now means consumption, then it still meant discovery. But in all discoveries there is some degree of presumptuousness. And this is what bothered Swift. But this book is a journey in itself: Travel into Acerbity. Each part becomes more acidic and sour than the previous one. And if the Victorians found it indecent we have to admit that there is a fair amount of stripping in this book, but not of clothes. Swift is stripping human nature. For apart from the hilarious and highly creative stories, the sum of reflections on the relativity of some of our beliefs, which we hold as absolute, constitutes a fully developed treatise on us. The Fantastic and Utopian character is disguised by Swift's framing with exact dates each of the four trips. Gulliver sets off on the 4th of May 1699 and returns from his final trip on the 5th of December 1715. May be it was this kind of specificity that made one of Swift’s contemporaries go and have a look at his Atlas to check where Lilliput was. And another adamantly denied that the whole thing could be true!!Apart from children, some mathematicians have also been delighted by Gulliver’s adventures (demonstrable proof). The third trip, to the Land of Laputa (some knowledge of Spanish helps in understanding this title) is an amusing diatribe against mathematicians and academics. A good reader of Swift must be willing to embrace self-parody.The fourth and final trip is the most controversial one, since it is a direct blow at the arrogance of human nature. And yet, this part is an excellent exposition of Swift’s thinking and his deep aversion of brutality and despotism.Apart from Swift’s exuberant imagination, I have greatly enjoyed his language. In spite of the irony and satire, his writing reads as coming directly from the pen of Mister Common Sense. Swift wrote in a limpid form, keeping a perfect pace that accompanied an impeccable stream of clear thinking. Swift was known for his conviction on the appropriate use of language:That the use of speech was to make us understand one another, and to receive information of facts; now if any one said the thing which was not, these ends were defeated.And to make sure of this, he would read aloud to his servants to confirm that his text would be understood.He kept his humour until the end, and this is what he wrote for his own epitaph.He gave the little wealth he had,To build a House for Fools and Mad.And shew’d by one Satyric Touch,No Nation needed it so much.I close this book feeling a great respect for the smart, polite Houyhnhnms who enjoy a level of wisdom and common sense that should be the envy of all of us.