This is going to be a tricky book to review. I have called books sweeping epics in the past, and after reading this book I am raising the standard for that description.This basically is like if Ken Liu looked at all the authors who have done trilogy, or quartet. And then followed it up with another series. Except Ken decided to fit his entire first series into a 600 page book. And now he can write the sequel series, because people tend to like the sequel series anyway.(Dark age compared to Red Rising, Age of Madness compared to First Law, and I think people like Bakker's second series more as well) I am not exaggerating when I say more happens in this book than in the first 5 ASOIAF books, or the first 4 Stormlight books.This obviously doesn't mean it is better, or worse, but it does have clear pro's and clear consThe main pro is that you manage to get an insane amount of story, and as a key point that story is continually good. Despite often being zoomed out, Liu manages to zoom in enough that you have reason to care about the people involved. Things are always moving forward, and I swear if I see someone say this book was too long, I will send a 4 pupiled giant after them. The main con, is that of course a lot scenes in this book feel distant. Some of the dialogue feels very brief, like a summary of what was said, and not what was actually said. Some events are glanced over, and you kind of just have to trust that they make sense, and a couple of those felt a little questionable.Basically if you have read Fire and Blood(or a normal history book, I guess), compare that to ASOIAF(or a normal fantasy book), this is halfway in between those. You get a lot more dialogue, and internal monologues, than a history book, but it also zooms through events. And if I were to look at the outline for this book, I would have guessed it was an outline for a 7 book series.Oh also I want to mention, this world is not for the faint of heart. In terms of just how brutal things get, it is actually one of the darkest series I have read. Oh also props to Ken Liu for making a dark gritty world without resorting to inserting sexual violence. Overall this was a really impressive book, that build a fantastic world, covered a lot of ground thematically, established a well fleshed out cast of morally complex, and dynamic characters, and truly covered an insane amount of events. While also at times feeling emotionally distant, and rushed a little to my taste.My favorite moments in this book were generally the more zoomed in bits, which I have been told is more what the next 3 books are like.8.2/10