DNF-ed at page 340.Rating: 1 stars on principle of 'I don't think too highly on people passing their fanfics rip-offs as published novels/their own original creations'Random Thoughts when reading the book: The opening scene does remind me of Records of the Grand Historian, and the Biographies of the Assassins.Actual review starts here:What I think should be the real title of this book: Chu-Han Contention, the Fanfic Rip-Off.Edited@09/03/2021But wait, to think about it more carefully, calling this book 'fanfic' would be an insult to all the fanfics out there because with fanfics, at least the writers wouldn't go so far as borrowing all the canon characters and plots which aren't their own, renaming those characters, publishing their fanfics and at the same time pretending these are their original novels, just like Ken Liu had done.Just in case you are not familiar with Chinese history and you have no idea what the hell is the Chu-Han Contention, here is some basic information: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chu%E2%...It is so, so sad that so far I can only find a few reviewers like this one and that one who have ever mentioned the total lack of originality on Ken Liu's part.At this point, I can pretty much hear Ken Liu laughing all the way to the bank and he does have every reason to laugh: because what can be more convenient than writing a fanfic ripping someone else's material off then still have people paying to read your fanfic rip-off whilst giving you praises for your so-called originality and what not? Let me repeat again what is the main problem: the novel is basically a copy-and-paste fanfic rip-off based on historical events and figures from ancient China, and I personally just can't take people passing fanfics rip-offs off as published novels seriously.So, exactly how bad is the problem? As so as I read through the first 100 pages of the book, I found I have a bone to pick with Ken Liu:'Hi Mr. Liu, I'm reading your book The Grace of Kings but I don't think you deserve full credit for the creation of this story---I mean, let's face it, at least 80% (if not 90%) of this story and its characters are ripoff lifted from the events in Chinese history and actually existed historical figures from ancient China.'Perhaps I'm too quick to judge. Still, to be honest around 20 pages into the novel, I started to suspect the storyline of this supposedly 'Asian influenced' fantasy epic is a copy-and-paste of the Fall of the Qin Empire and the two rebellious Main Characters are repeating the rivalry between Lau Bang and Xiang Yu, two legendary historical figures from that era.Plus, isn't this Xana Empire and its Emperor in the novel are basically the Qin Empire and the First Emperor, a.k.a King Zheng of Qin, a.k.a Qin Shi Huang, going by with other names?Therefore, a huge amount of credits should have gone to...(1) Sima Qian: the famed historian from around 130 B.C. who penned Records of the Grand Historian, who recorded and immortalized the deeds of the First Emperor, Lau Bang, Xiang Yu and many others.(2) The countless other historians, script writers, story-tellers, novelists, play writers who rewrote and retold the epic tales about the Fall of the Qin Empire and the Rise of the Han Dynasty and kept these legendary events alive through millenniums.So, why is there a problem? Let's do a checklist:(1) It isn't just the First Emperor, Lau Bang and Xiang Yu being lifted from historical texts, even the supporting characters, the secondary characters and the third-ranking characters in The Grace of Kings can all find their actually-existed historical counterparts in the history books.(2) To add insult to injury, Mr. Liu didn't even bother to change much of anything out of the source materials (perhaps expects of the airships, we can't find these in ancient China, right?): so there were Seven Warring States in the history of China? Good, Mr. Liu has Seven States in his fictional world too. So according to Sima Qian, there was a failed attempt at the First Emperor's life when the guy was having a grand tour across his Empire? Good, this dramatic scene is covered in the very first chapter of this novel. So both Lau Bang and Xiang Yu got a glimpse of the First Emperor when the latter traveled across cities? Good, Kuni and Mata from the novel would do just the same. So there was a tragic romance between Xiang Yu the Hegemon and his Concubine Yu? Good, this famous tragic love story gets a repeat in the story of Mata Zyndu the Hegemon and Lady Mira in the novel as well. Examples like these are endless.(3) Last but not least, many poems by famous Chinese poets, many songs, many slang and quite a number of teaching from ancient Chinese sages, also mysteriously found their ways into the fictional world of Xana Empire, into the mouths of many fictional characters too...(4) My point is, it seems to me that before Ken Liu even sat himself down and started penning this novel, most of the hard labor a novelist must have gone through when creating his/her novel: researching, dramatization of the events, characterization and even the characters' setting had already been done by Sima Qian and the other historians and novelists, etc. How convenient.(5) My point is, it's okay to base your stories on real history and historical figures, after all these historical figures and events are no copyrighted items, right? But would you please don't be so obvious, please? And here is something I have for readers who are still wondering: 'what is the problem here?' Let me ask you one thing: can you take a 'epic high fantasy novel' seriously after you discover said 'high fantasy epic' is actually the author lifting the entire period of World War II from history textbook then placing it on a supposed fantasy landscape, then renaming famous historical figures such as Hitler and Churchill into some other names else, renaming the locations, adding a few magical elements into the story, and then call it a day.Can you really tolerate this kind of 'novel-writing'? I can understand authors getting inspired by Chinese history or basing their stories and characters on said history, but a copy-and-paste rip-off from the actual Chinese history ---so far, all Mr. Liu had seemingly done for this story is to draw up a map for some fantasy landscapes, changed a bit of the details, created eight gods/goddesses, renaming historical figures---is not really okay in my book.I know, Ken Liu has make no secret where his inspiration came from, but copying the historical events in Chinese history, translating them into English, then puts them in a high fantasy backdrop and sells it to English speaking audience, still leaves a bad taste in my mouth. It feels like Mr. Liu believes his audience is too ignorant, too uninformed, too innocent to discover what he is up to. It might sound like I hate this book, but actually I don't. It's enjoyable to read, Mr. Liu does has his elegant way of writing, a fine touch with constructing details for his fictional world, and many good and beautiful use of metaphors (although not many of them are truly original but I can live with it) and the plot is so easy to follow because most of them are already familiar to me and my reading progress is the same like people keep finding Easter Eggs in MCU movies ('Look! I'd read about this or that scene, or this or that characters from history book before! ') . Let's wait and see how the rest of the book will turn out.PS: if you are interested in reading martial art historical and/or fantasy novels with a lick more of originality, do try the novels by Liang Yusheng, Jin Yong or Gu Long. These are the Big Three in the field of the martial art novels anyway.PSS: I've just found out this book was translated to Chinese and published by a publisher from mainland China. On a popular internet platform, many readers from mainland China are just as disappointed by Ken Liu's copying and pasting Chinese history and pretending he wrote his own story as I am: https://book.douban.com/subject/27120...If you want to read those comments above translated into English, check this link.