This book straight up blew my mind.Betrayals. Twists. Sacrifices. Honor. Love. Lust. Loss. This story has everything I could possibly want...The Grace of Kings, hands down, has the greatest depiction of war i have ever read. Ken Liu is a genius at crafting war strategies, which are incredibly intricate and complex from every possible direction. The large scale battles are insane and seeing these different strategies play out is so intense. However, it's not only the war strategy that gets me, but also the hidden motives from every single character. There's always some sort of scheme happening in the background and all are extremely well crafted. Having a birds eye view of events really opens up the plot to these extra details. As someone who studies Chinese at uni, I greatly appreciated the Chinese influence. This book takes pieces of Chinese history and makes its own history with it. However what impressed me more than the history was the philosophy. Every chapter had some sort of thought provoking passage or proverb that not only greatly affected character's decision making, but affected my own personal view on war and conflict.  The way that Gods were entwined into the main plot was PERFECT! Too often I read books where the role of Gods is a missed opportunity for me. Most recently that being The Song of Achilles. However, Ken Liu manages to feature the Gods sparingly to keep the mystery, but enough so that you know they play an active role in the plot. Their own conflict even draws parallel with that of mortals at times and their influence cannot be ignored.Now to the Characters... This could well be the most well thought out cast I've read. Each one has their own backstory, so expect a whole lot of backstories, which i'm usually not a fan of, but in this case they were each so distinct and interesting that i was engaged throughout. Highlights for me were Soto, Jia, Luan, Gin, Mira and of course, Mata and Kuni. Mata and Kuni's relationship was written perfectly from start to finish and I loved reading about their opposing ideologies of how to make the world a better place.The writing style is very different, at least to me, and took me a fair while to get used to. Ken Liu writes almost a description of events, as opposed to being real time if that makes sense? So that did make it hard for me to be fully engaged right away and on top of all the new characters and places it was a lot to take in. In the beginning i was constantly looking back to the glossary and character list, but it was worth it when it all clicked!I've read some reviews saying they found this a slow read, but for me i was so engaged with all the intrigue and strategic build up that i didn't find it slow at all. There's so many different POVs that change constantly, that it really does build up intensity on a grand scale. But even on a smaller scale, i loved reading about the culture, like all the different seating positions to express different moods.Overall, This book has gone straight to my favourites shelf. While being a lot to take in to start with, as soon as it clicked i was ready to go! The Asian influence, the Philosophy, The Characters, The Strategy, The Gods, everything was so well crafted.