Well, this one is unique! This is something I can honestly say I’ve never seen before, at least inside the fantasy genre, though I’ve seen it quite a bit outside of it. This is a comedy of manners in the classic sense, and reads like Jane Austin and Oscar Wilde got together to write a fantasy novel. It’s funny, well executed and very witty (so much of the dialogue has double meanings or insults hidden behind kind words that I found myself laughing out loud on multiple occasions).The plot alternates between two central protagonists. Michael a young nobleman with little interest in politics, but quite a fan of playing cards with those who are interested in such matters, who decides to take up the sword initially to cause a scandal, but finds himself in a rather… interesting situation.The other protagonist is where the plot mostly focuses, as he weaves into Michael’s, but is following a much more dangerous path on his own. He is a swordsman named Richard. He is the best and most popular duelist in town. In his own words, he “doesn’t do weddings,” which in this case means he is not for mere entertainment or ceremony. He only will duel to the death and preferably with only those who will give him a challenge. In the world presented here, duelists come off as glorified assassins. While someone else can accept the challenge for their target, swordsmen are typically paid to try to corner their opponent in such a way that they have no one to fight for them, making for an easier kill. This is presented as the norm in this society and seemingly the way most petty matters of honor are resolved.Kushner has created a fascinating world here, and I can see why this book has such a loyal following. While it is not one of the best known fantasy novels, it is one that I see fairly consistently on “best of” lists, and I cannot disagree. The story is clever and almost perfectly presented. The characters are witty and the dialogue charming. It also has a fantastic opening (which at least in my edition is even praised by George R. R. Martin on the cover blurb) and if it doesn’t hook you immediately… well, then perhaps this isn’t the book for you. I only have one complaint about the book, and honestly it’s a big enough one that it prevented a full five stars. Michael’s plot just kind of trailed off. There’s no resolution there, and while we can pretty much gather what will happen, he’s just temporarily stuck in a limbo like state… and I found that rather annoying as he was so central to the first half of the plot and then just seemingly cast aside.That complaint aside, this is an excellent fantasy novel and well worth a read. Highly recommended.