"You don't need some amateur Goddess barging in on your Sunday morning.""I would pay you a salary to barge in on every single aspect of my life."Hades and Persephone are already so perfect 💘🤭 what the hell I'm obsessed!?!?!?The art is gorgeous and different from what I usually read in graphic novels so it just added more to my excitement. I loved the plot as it is the modern retelling of greek myths and the way the author draw the characters in this is just so unique, stylish and perfect. The story is about the myth of Persephone's abduction by Hades but in a modern world of friendships, lies and gossips and the wild parties where we get to see the different sides of greek gods. I started this last year but couldn't read more than 5 episodes and thanks to Lila (you're the best🥹🫶) whose review made me try this again and Lila guess what? I'm obsessed!!!✦ Hades: I love how Grumpy he is sometimes and yet so soft for Persephone 🥺 and the way he was jealous of his own dog Cerberus because Persephone was touching the dog 🥹✦ Persephone: The sweet pink cinnamon roll 💗 she is my favourite and I want her to stand for herself and I know she tries her best but sometimes people like Apollo don't know the meaning of NO😤 and all I want for her is happiness!!!✦ Eros: He is just perfect and such a sass queen in this and I can't wait to know more about him 😌 also I'm scared for him to be heartbroken and it already happened 😭 but the way he loves Psyche is just 😭💘
Psyche- "I love being here. It's like a dream....but I don't want to be a dream. I want to be real."Eros- "I love you and I want you to be happy. But right now, it's not safe for you to leave."
✦ Psyche: I liked her but I'm so scared for her and Eros's story and I know they got their happy ending but the way they got it was just 😭 and I'm not ready for it...✦ Hera: She's funny and witty and I love how protective she is of Persephone 🥺 I want more of her and Zeus since they both look so adorable in this!! ✦ Zeus: Man is so smitten with his wife lmao🤣😭 I love his relationship with Hades and Poseidon 🤣 the trio I didn't knew I needed!!✦ Artemis: she's so funny, lovely and so damn better than her brother. And the way she said that boys are not allowed in her house but then let Eros in because he brings donuts for her and Persephone 🤣💗✦ Minthe: I hate her that's all and I know she's going to behave like a bitch in the upcoming storyline 😠✦ Demeter: Artemis once said "Demeter is such a fucking helicopter." And It's the truth. And the way she trapped her own daughter is horrible 😭✦ Apollo: Someone kill him already 😠🔪 he's such a piece of shit and how the hell he fucking did that to my sweet Persephone 😠😤🔪🔪 Die Die Die!! The ending in this was just sad 😭 It was lovely too see how Hades was so smitten by Persephone. I hated how trapped Persephone feels and that she needs to prove herself 😭 She deserves the world and Hades!!! I NEED MORE OF THEM!!!This is addicting and why the hell didn't I read this before!?? "Better late than never." I guess😌 So excited to read more of it!!!