*Winner of the 2021 Goodreads Choice Award for Graphic Novels!*Volume 2 out next week!

Zeus, Poseidon, and HadesIf reading about mythological god clowning around while spreading gossip and scandal is intriguing to you, Lore Olympus by Rachel Smythe is a must. Setting Greek myth in a modern day society of fast cars and bars, Lore Olympus is comedic and playful with the well-known characters in a way that is fresh and just thoroughly entertaining. Originally released as a webtoon (read it here), this graphic novel compiles the first 25 episodes in full color to show off Smythe’s wonderfully stylized artwork. Using the Hades and Persephone story as an anchor around which all the other god’s stories play out and cross paths, Smythe retells the myth without the horrific rape and instead as a cute story of shy romance. These are the gods of Olympus here, so while it is playful and fairly lighthearted it is also dark and filled with toxic interactions, manipulations and assaults—as one would probably expect but heads up. This is a treat for those who know the stories, but if you are unfamiliar with Greek mythology or only have a basic understanding this book won't make you feel outside of it at all and, if anything, will really welcome you in and be easy to follow. With sharp and colorful art that really pops and spirited, modernized retellings that demonstrate a true love for the source material, Lore Olympus is a delightful success.As one should probably expect, we get to watch the gods be complete pricks to each other and spite one another and scheming for revenge or just pure sport. The gods of Olympus were more or less an early soap opera and Smythe definitely delivers on the soap opera front. Lore Olympus opens with Persephone as the “new girl in the city” role, having just moved in to be Artemis’ roommate while Hades is this corporate executive-type just off a breakup with Minth. He spots her at a party with his brothers Zeus and Poseidon and the plot races off down the morally murky highway. It’s all fast cars, high fashion, and rich folks with too much time on their hands and a complete lack of fucks to give about anyone other than themselves, and I’m here for it. The depiction of Zeus is great, depicting him as super shitty and egotistical as you’d imagine but still making him just a lot of fun as he messes with his two brothers. My favorite depiction is Eros as a bubbly bisexual, though the strong-willed, protective best friend vibes from Artemis are equally enjoyable. It’s all very energetic and entertaining, and the modern setting opens up a lot of fun with the characters all having iphones and instagrams which quickly spread all the gossip. 

With Lore Olympus you get pretty much what you expect, and all of it is a really good time. The color palettes are great, contrasting Persephone’s pink with Hades and the underworld all in blacks and blues and a fun watercolor-splash look to the backgrounds. It looks pretty andt while the stories aren’t exactly pretty, they really grab you. Smythe includes a warning at the beginning that these stories can be pretty troubling, which is cool, especially when she mentions talking with people if you find yourself needing support. Take care of each other and yourselves, friends, so basically don’t do what these characters do. I wish this was longer into the story but Lore Olympus is a blast and I can’t wait to read more.4.5/5