When I was seven winters of age, my mother caught me in the hearth stacking red-hot coals with my bare hands.   recently i've begun to read more f/f romance in hopes of finding myself represented in those books. when i saw the synopsis for this story, where two princesses defy all odds and fall in love against a backdrop of impending war, i knew i had to pick it up. while  of fire and stars  definitely managed to interest me, i didn't expect to like it as much as i did, having read some controversial reviews about it.denna's character arc was something i really liked. the way she came into her gifts and stopped trying to suppress them was fascinating. some have commented that she was obviously a goody-two-shoes but by the end she definitely wasn't. her character's development was both believable and enjoyable, i had very neutral feelings towards her at the start because she felt very awkwardly written but i liked her a lot more at the end.thandi was about as interesting as white bread, and most other characters weren't given enough air time, but mare? fierce, brave, rebellious, stubborn. she was probably my favorite character. her need for freedom is something that resonated very deeply with me, and i think part of the reason why i liked her so much was because i saw a lot of myself in her. her hatred for showing vulnerability, her inner strength, her devil-may-care attitude -- it was like i was seeing myself in those pages. as for the plot, and the world-building, i thought it was all pretty average. not terrible, but nothing amazing either. there was a lot of  telling  instead of showing -- this made sentences run on longer than they should and some paragraphs just weren't necessary. additionally, it wasn't very well-developed, and there was no reason given for the prejudice against magic. the story took place in one country the whole time, although neighboring countries were frequently spoken of or mentioned, and it was very wasted because there was no exploration of the other lands. in my opinion, this was an amazing fantasy idea but with rather poor execution. there was a lot of potential to create something more complex and memorable, which just wasn't there.the representation was very well done. i loved that the world wasn't heteronormative, and throughout the book many characters mentioned same-sex relationships and no one batted an eye. i read the author's note later and it turns out the author herself is married to another woman, which would explain the believability surrounding the romance between denna and mare, and i appreciated that she didn't just focus on the f/f relationship between the MCs and put everyone else in a straight relationship as is the case in some other books.overall, the story was fairly intriguing, and i can admit i was invested in denna and mare's romance. i liked the book enough that i will read the sequel when i find the time/money to. coupled with the lesbian romance (which is something that still sorely requires more normalcy in YA books), it solidly deserves its four stars.