If one were to ask me what my favorite genre was, depending on my mood I would answer either fantasy or horror. It used to always be fantasy, but sometimes I get jaded with the genre and its frequently reused tropes. When this happens, I find that I pretty much all but abandon the genre for a bit... until something comes along and reminds me why I loved the genre so much in the first place. Tress is one of those novels. Now first I’m going to state that I’m not super familiar with Sanderson’s works. So, if you’re like me and don’t have his works memorized inside and out, fear not, this is a wonderful stand-alone. There are references to his other works (and I gather our narrator is kind of a big deal to say the least) but you in no way need the information to follow along with the story. In fact, this may be a good go to if you’re interested in the author and don’t know where to start. This is a pure fun read. This is not a book about the fate of the universe being in peril, but rather a Princess Bride meets Pirates of the Caribbean style adventure. The book has an absolutely wonderful sense of humor to it as well, with a narrator that found a way to delight me in every chapter (I particularly love a running joke in which he informs us that there are more characters than he can remember, so unimportant ones will all be called Doug as it’s the only name that exists in every world he’s been to). I’ve seen some say that the book has a YA feel to it. I honestly don’t fully see it. While the book has nothing objectionable for younger ages, and does indeed have a few tropes that YA loves, it feels more like an 80s fantasy novel that would have inspired such works rather than being a part of them. Maybe I’m just too jaded with the term YA, but I just don’t fully see it here. Tress is a wonderful adventure novel filled with humor and heart. One I recommend to every fantasy fan... and yes, this may be the one that finally convinces me to check out other Sanderson novels. 4/5 stars.