The heartbreaking and thrilling conclusion to the story started in Luck in the Shadows, and whoo boy, does it not disappoint!It has a little bit of everything: Necromancy, strange rituals to try and bring back evil gods, heartbreak, true love, heroic sacrifices and some good, good kisses. Really, it's everything I wanted and so much more. It gives us the answer to the prophecy that has haunted the story since the first book, and the answer is... not excellent. In fact it broke my heart. Very, very much. I finished this book and then I spent a day in a sort of daze, where I just felt numb. I was that ruined. It's not only that it's heartbreaking, it's that it's so well written. This series is not perfect, not at all, but Lynn Flewelling has seriously poured some heart and soul into it, into the universe, the characters and the story she hopes to tell. And it shows. It shows in the way I got attached to these characters lightning quick, and the way I breathlessly prayed they'd all make it out alive.The intense desire I felt for them to be okay, to be happy, to be together, is honestly the most compelling thing about these books. As much as I love the world and the plot, it's the characters that draw me back in. This bond they share that goes beyond mere friendship and romance. It takes different shapes between each of them, but it's unbreakable. It's what gives the series heart. I was completely and utterly blown away by this story and the conclusion to the things Flewelling started in the first book. These two can be read on their own, but I'm still extremely excited to return to the series and Alec and Seregil.  Who finally, FINALLY, kiss and it's the most beautiful, wonderful and excellent thing in the world. God bless those two idiots, I love them forever.Anyway, all this to say: Read this series. It's great. It's excellent. It's all blades and swagger and roguish charms. With a little dash of magic, saving the world and true love. I'm still head over heels for it.