“always throw spilled salt over your left shoulder. keep rosemary by your garden gate. add pepper to your mashed potatoes. plant roses and lavender, for luck. fall in love whenever you can.”in this story, the troubled lives of two generations of owens women are at the forefront. there’s sally and gillian, two sisters who couldn’t be more different, trying to find their place in the world. almost two decades later, the same occurs for sally’s teenage daughters, antonia and kylie.it’s a slice-of-life, coming of age kind of story: we accompany sally and gillian from early childhood to somewhere in their late thirties, watching them struggle through high school bullying, lovesick boys, and the town’s superstitious prejudices against their family.one being the goody-two-shoes and the other being the wild child, they eventually drift away from each other and their hometown. but then gillian is forced to ask her sister sally -- now widowed and with two teenage daughters -- for help once she’s landed herself in Truly Hot Water.part life lessons, part bad decisions and dead bodies, this book should’ve been everything i usually love -- but instead it just gave me an annoyingly meandering, padded experience that ultimately led to nowhere.… i’m also just going to come out and say it: i think the movie is better than the book. even though the movie is campy and corny at times and also vastly dissimilar from the book, as i now know, it’s still leagues better in terms of themes, portrayal of relationships, and even in its supernatural aspects.watching the movie before reading the book led me to expect certain things of the story thematically, too. where the movie focuses on relationships between women across generations being a huge healing factor for childhood trauma, fear, prejudice, and standing one’s ground against toxic and abusive men, the book seems to vaguely focus on… love as its main theme?i remain somewhat doubtful because ‘love’ as a concept is very strangely and inconsistently portrayed within the story. it seems very much tied into romantic love all the time, up to the point where the owens sisters are almost exclusively having fallout or getting angry with each other over each other’s beauty and how that influences the world around them.... which is such an old, tired trope. i mean, come on.all owens women are apparently supernaturally beautiful: when wearing a short skirt, gillian LITERALLY causes traffic accidents. once she starts working at the burger joint, rows of drooling teenage boys show up constantly ordering junk food just for a chance at being close to her (a thirty-something woman). and when the biology teacher sets his eyes on her, all other women in town get mad ‘cause they were gunning for him to notice them.likewise, antonia is constantly turning heads in high school. every boy wants to date her. meanwhile, kylie is left in the dust as an awkward, too-tall, frizzy-haired weirdo who’s always jealous her sister’s getting all the attention. until she grows up and magically gets hot (in 90s teen flick makeover style) and starts outshining her older sister.stuff like this seems the only source of discord between both sally and gillian, and kylie and antonia (and the other women in town) -- with sally and kylie taking on the role of the ugly, practical sister always looking to do The Right Thing and being ‘weird’ or different, and gillian and antonia taking on the role of the beautiful, vapid sister always focusing on The Boys instead.speaking of which... boy oh boy are there a lot of Boys in this novel. i doubt there’s a single man in this who’s not at one point served as a love interest for any of the owens women. and owens girls. because yes, even the thirteen-year-old who’s suddenly gotten hotter than her sixteen-year-old sister gets a love interest.here, too, ‘love’ does not seem to be the right word for whatever’s happening. if practical magic was the source of all insta-love in the lit world, i’d believe it. no joke. everyone seems almost drunkenly obsessed with each other within a SECOND of meeting each other, up to the point where i had to awkwardly read characters fantasizing about fucking each other two paragraphs after meeting.NONE of the romantic relationships that develop in this book seem to be healthy. i absolutely do not say this in a slut-shaming or prudish way, nor do i believe there’s only one way of falling in love but jesus christ. people pondering to sink to their knees on someone’s porch in the pouring rain, proclaiming their love, and asking them to marry them after being on a few dates.or how about this gem? context: they’ve met TWICE, he’s investigating her possible involvement in a murder, she gives him a half-confession to said murder, and he starts crying because he desires her SO MUCH. she half-climbs in his lap after chiding him for crying, and after some canoodling we get this (warning for rapey thoughts incoming): “at this moment, gary wishes he could grab her and force her, at least until she gave in. he’d like to make love to her right there, he’d like to do it all night and not give a damn about anything else, and not listen if she told him no. but he’s not that kind of man, and he never will be. he’s seen too many lives go wrong when a man allows himself to be led around by his dick.”… YIKES. i honestly don’t even want to try unpacking all of that.it all just felt so strangely jarring to me, especially considering how a lot of gillian’s story revolves around her escaping an abusive relationship involving physical violence and rape. but even that is easily shoved to the sidelines in favor of mr. deeply obsessed rope wrangling biology teacher stalking her until she gives into loving him.which is all good because she trusts him enough to let him tie her up, no worries!hoffman seems to flirt very much with the idea of the witch being a female archetype that embodies feminist values, and is therefore shunned and othered: independent, powerful, self-reliant and headstrong. we see this in stories about various owens women in the family line, being bullied for being different as well as in charge of their own destiny. they even have a tradition of children born of their line always taking on the owens surname.but everything else in this book just seems to undermine that very message or concept, focusing instead on an unhealthy obsession with romantic love and how ‘growing up’ for women means they either start looking like a supermodel or they… start dressing down to hide their beauty because they don’t want to utilize it, i guess??it could have been a poignant commentary on sexism, the importance of interpersonal relationships, and the worth and agency of women beyond how society objectifies them -- and the occasional off-handed comment does reach that level -- while showcasing the life of a couple of very flawed characters… but alas, ‘tis not meant to be. [1]the prose is about the only thing that holds up very well. hoffman has a way with the english language that evokes a kind of magic all on its own, and her descriptions of the witchy mansion sally and gillian grow up in are lovely to read. some of the life lessons in this are wrapped up in an absolute exquisite way, too.but in terms of story execution… too much padding / filler, too much recounting and not showing, and constant meandering in and out of flashbacks and various points of views. seriously, it got to the point where some parts of the narrative just became a mushy fever dream while i was reading it.at the end of the day, this book was simply not it. i find myself longing for the heartfelt characters and relationships i remember from the film, so that’s what i’ll be rewatching again tonight.✎ 2.0 stars.[1] is the movie super clever metaphorical commentary on sexism? i don’t know. but it DOES do every single one of those things hoffman seems to be only alluding to in her book: employing the archetype of the witch and breaking it down to show how a community of women can empower & strengthen each other while driving out abusers.