I read Practical Magic many years ago and re-read very quickly just to reacquaint myself with the characters, and themes at play because I have started reading Rules of Magic, the prequel. However, I have been asked what I thought of Practical Magic, so here are some thoughts and I will review the Rules of Magic properly when I finish reading.In summary, I don’t think you will be missing much if you pass on this one. Having now started the Rules of Magic, I can say that already the character and the storylines are much better developed in the prequel, and it will not spoil your reading experience if you go for the Rules of Magic first. A little bit of the plot, Gillian and Sally go to live with their aunts in a small town in New England. The story unfolds with the girls realising they possess mystical powers but don’t have the maturity and awareness to know what to do with it or how to use it properly. However, as they are learning to cope with their newfound powers, they are rejected and feared by this small community and blamed for every misfortune that befalls the town. Obviously for the sins of the aunts. What is set up nicely for the prequel are the hints that the aunts are mischievous, dangerous and have a past, but as guardians the magic, the spells and the curses are suppressed in favour of the young witches learning a normal life.Some things worth noting- 	The film is missing a number of the plots from the book but equally the film has done its bit in raising the profile of the book from a bit of nothingness really. I don't mind saying this because the author has written some great books since and even the prequel is better.- 	Perhaps combine the film with reading the book on Practical Magic for a better all rounded experience - 	Best quotes"For every evil under the sun, There is a remedy, or there is none. If there be one, seek till you find it, if there be none, never mind it.""For the aunts tried to encourage her not to be so good. Goodness, in their opinion, was not a virtue but merely spinelessness and fear disguised as humility." "She knows now that when you don’t lose yourself in the bargain, you find you have double the love you started with, and that’s one recipe that can’t be tampered with. ""Always throw spilled salt over your left shoulder. Keep rosemary by your garden gate. Add pepper to your mashed potatoes. Plant roses and lavender, for luck. Fall in love whenever you can. " If only life could be that easy. 2.5 stars rounded up to 3. Ok but not the best witchcraft, sorcery or spell binding book I have read.