In 2004 Susanna Clarke published a groundbreaking book called Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrel. Written in prose reminiscent of Jane Austen and Horace Walpole, it put a gothic-almost-romantic spin on the Fantasy genre that surprised and enthralled many, making it an instant bestseller with a cult following of readers who, to this day, simply cannot wait for the sequel. Knowing that it took nearly ten years for Clarke to write JS&N, it seems more than fair to assume that the wait for the said sequel is not yet over and that readers will simply have to be patient for a little while longer. So in the meantime why not enjoy ourselves with The Ladies of Grace Adieu, Clarke’s first collection of short stories which she published in 2006? While not as good as JS&N, it still bears the mark of the author’s genius and will by no means be a waste of your precious reading time. That is, of course, provided that fairy tales are your cup of tea...THE LADIES OF GRACE ADIEU is the first story in the collection. It deals with the friendship of three women and their mutual inclination for ghoulish magic, and is one of my favorites.ON LICKERISH HILL is Clarke’s take on the Rumplestiltskin tale. Written as a diary in old-fashioned English, it starts with the subtle taste of a delicate vintage then quickly moves on to much bitter notes. In other words, not my favorite.MRS MABB is about a woman whose boyfriend dumps her for the fairy Queen Mab and tries to get him back. Will she succeed in her endeavor? Well, that’s the question, isn’t it?THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON MISPLACES HIS HORSE is another one of my favorites. It recounts how, after entering Faerie, the titular duke manages to rewrite––or rather “re-weave”––his future to his liking. Love it!MR SIMONELLI, OR THE FAIRY WIDOWER is the fifth story in the collection, and I, well, didn’t care much for this one…TOM BRIGHTWIND, OR HOW THE FAIRY BRIDGE WAS BUILT AT THORESBY is absolutely brilliant and I loved every single word of it. As for what it’s about, well folks, it’s all in the title!ANTICKES AND FRETS is a very short and brilliant tale about Mary, Queen of Scots, in which Clarke’s masterful use of English is reflected in every word. A total winner!JOHN USKGLASS AND THE CUMBRIAN CHARCOAL BURNER is the last tale of the bunch, and, by and large, my favorite one. It is a deceptively unassuming story about the Raven King (a main character in JS&N and a central one in Clarke’s mythology) and how he was more or less outsmarted by a simple charcoal burner. A diamond in the rough of a story, is what it is!OLIVIER DELAYEAuthor of the SEBASTEN OF ATLANTIS series