5 Best/Awesomest Series StarsShadows are wonderful things. They hide pain and conceal motives.[...] The good guys and bad guys aren’t as easy to tell apart as I used to think they were. You can’t look at someone with your eyes and take their measure. You have to look with the heart.A book consuming your soul, whispering seductive secrets in your ears. Haunting your days and dreams. A book about strength and wisdom. Yes, it could be the sought after Sinsar Dubh or it could easily be this bloody fantastic series...Mac, the girl that went through hell and emerged a fighter.Jericho, the man that cared too much to admit all his secrets.“You’re Mac,” he says. Do you understand that?”Who cares now about damned Fae, the walls, layers of secrets and betrayals woven into the fabric of worlds, revelations that blew my mind and shattered all my hopes, only to build them again a tiny morsel at the time. From despair at the beginning, to depression; from excitement and sheer joy, to agony and frustration; from arousal and joy, to sadness and confusion, to relief and love and unforgettable endings that are only new beginnings. A whole specter of emotions for a story that changed they way I will read paranormal books. Answers you ask? Oh, yes I got them... The best kind actually.You know, the best kind of answers are the ones you come up with, when you close the book after finishing it and stare at the ceiling, in awe of what you have experienced and feeling like you left a part of your heart inside."The only question of any significant emotive content is: Can you live without it?”Sad to leave Mac and Jericho, Ryordan and Dani, Sidhe-seers and parents ready to lay the world at their children's feet, V'lane and fairies, Druids and what-the-hell-the-nine-are, Existence after Death and K'Vruck, Seelie and Unseelie, Lovers and Sisters. Happy for the wild ride they took me through Dublin, Faery, time and dimensions, Illusions and Reality. But that's the story with the best books; you don't want them to end, but they do and you lose a friend.