First reread with my girl Tanya, January 2015.Think you'll be getting another review from me after this reread? Nope. Why? Burned. Tomorrow. Freaking out. Review. Write. Can't.This one? As. Awesome. As. Ever.Original review: November 2014Mother of all buddy reads starting December, 1 2014.Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to this brand new episode of the Fever Freak's Facts of Life.A quick reminder before we begin: this is not actually me writing this review, it's the 15 year old fangirl who possessed my body when I started reading this series.Fact #1: KMM is insaneReading this book makes you feel like:And a bit like:And a lot like:Fact #2: Long gone is Rainbow Girl, meet Mac 5.0Mac is angry. Mac is fierce. Mac is, hum, slightly bipolar. Mac is suffering from hormone overload. She's got it bad. Really bad. Can't say I blame her though. Who wouldn't after being screwed back to life by Jericho Freaking Barrons?Fact #3: JZBDo we really have to go into this again? Seriously? This really is exhausting. Why JZB? Because, you know, JZB.Get it? No? How about this:Still not getting it? Forget it, you're obviously hopeless. Fact #4: Hallelujah for the deed is finally done!!Well, technically it was already done but this here is just... Hey, is it really hot in here all of a sudden or is it just me? Sexual tension? None whatsoever. Not a bit.Fact #5: V'LaneJust because we all need a little V'Lane in our lives. Big spoilers ahead, do not click if you haven't read the book. Yeah yeah yeah, I know. He's really Cruce, he raped Mac and pretty much absorbed the whole Sinsar Dubh. So the guy isn't perfect. But he sure is pretty hot.That's V'Lane in a nutshell for you.Fact #6: DaniI used to like Dani. Really I did. Maybe if she dropped the "feck" and "dude" and "mega" and "super" everything she might get back in my good graces. Maybe. Not sure. Dreading Iced right now.Fact #7: The Nine are yummy bastardsAssholes? Definitely. Oozing hotness? You bet. Want to know exactly how hot these guys get? Go read this Burned teaser. Please try and refrain from drooling, fanning yourself, swooning etc. Thank you.Fact #8: The whole freaking bookFact #9: As always, love my Crazy Fever Freaks!