3 Stars:Overview: I finished this book 17 days ago and I’m just now actually writing this review…Oh well, better late than never right?Charlie Holmberg's book The Paper Magician takes place in a fictionalized Victorian era where magicians are bound to one element—meaning they can only preform magic using that component. The story begins with the reluctant Ceony beginning her apprenticeship in the arts of paper magic, under the care of one Emery Thane. Pros: I love, love, love this idea. Everything about it. Not only do I think the magical aspect of this is rather unique and very interesting in itself, but I was very excited to learn this doubled as a historical fiction. The time-era really blends with this well.Both the main characters are very interesting to me. I was never bombarded with background information or details about their personalities, but I was given enough I had an understanding of them before the plot settled in—and then I was allowed to slowly learn more and more. I thought this was handled quite well, with the appropriate amount of showing versus telling. The writing here definitely wasn’t absurdly gorgeous or original, but it also wasn’t stale. It avoided clichés with clever phrasing that I really enjoyed. One of my personal favorites was“Ceony’s skeleton slumped within her skin.” Which seems very odd, but in context allowed for me to perfectly picture Ceony’s reaction. I really loved the villain this this. She was coy without being overtly so, and it was great slowly learning more about her  both in real time and in flashbacks.  I love how Ceony took out Lira. It wasn’t outright vicious, but it certainly wasn’t tame. It was believable for both their characters and I feel the repercussions of this action are notable throughout the rest of the series. The thing I was most excited to read about was the different uses for paper-magic. I was not disappointed, this was vastly creative and super entertaining. There were several details that I found kind of clever and enjoyed. For instance, Ceony seems to share several characteristics with the element she binds to (paper). She’s scared of water and says it makes he feel as if she will “fall apart.” There were more, but I don’t remember them all right now. I also thought the term Excisior was clever in itself, considering the form of magic they practiced.  Cons: The main thing that drew me in to this book was this fantastic world full of magic. I couldn’t wait to see how it was structured—how are elements assigned? How do the different magicians work together? What roles do they have in society? Is this magic something everyone has; or a chosen few? And… I never really got to see that. Around 25% in, this book rapidly changes plot-wise, and the rest of the book ends up being very flash-back filled and introspective. This was interesting… but seemed premature. I think it would have worked much better in a sequel. If I’d been given a book to learn more about these characters and this world, this entire plot would have had more impact to meSince there was such a rapid plot shift, it’s hard to really talk about what I disliked—as most of it came after.  To clarify, as my non-spoiler comments are very vague. This whole journey through Thane’s heart and “learning-more-about-him/falling-in-love" would have fit much better in a sequel to me, compared to my introduction to these characters.  I really would have preferred seeing Ceony come into her own and learn to accept working with Paper Magic without love being part of the equation. I certainly wouldn’t have minded her falling in love later on, but I feel the story about her accepting herself and this new life-style should have been separate from that. I didn’t really pick up on any chemistry between the two-love interests? I honestly thought it was just a friendly relationship until it wasn’t.The first 25% (before the plot shift) seemed to drag a little bit. I think Holmberg was trying to build up to this later plot-shift, but until that happened, there really wasn’t a lot plot wise.  Uh… why didn’t Lira just crush/stab his heart once it was out of Thane’s chest? She didn’t seem to have any plans with it, and it would have killed Thane in time anyway, so it’s not as if she wanted him alive. I don’t get it.   In Conclusion: This went a completely different direction than I was expecting, and I was a little let down by that. But it still held my interests and I’m intrigued to read more of this world.