2/5 stars This was my most anticipated book of the year and FUCK I’m disappointed. I didn’t hate this book, but I didn’t love it either, and I was SURE I was going to love this book the second I saw that beautiful cover. Alas … this book was simply okay.Now when I heard about it, I was thrilled: a reimagined story about the Ming dynasty’s rise to power with fantasy elements and an ambitious female protagonist? Take all of my money! This synopsis actually feels a bit like false advertising. Zhu (our reimagined Emperor) was only one of many POVs in this book. We get POV chapters from Ouyang, a eunuch general forced to serve the Prince who slaughtered his family, Esen, the son of said Prince and best friend to Ouyang, and Ma Xiuying, the daughter of a rebel warlord. So in total, the character and story I mainly signed up for only accounted for maybe a third of this book. My American hardback (the Australia/UK cover of this one was hideous when compared to the beautiful art on this edition) doesn’t even mention any of these other people in the synopsis on the cover. It only mentions Zhu and her desired rise to power. I feel betrayed and lied to :(But this isn’t the book’s only problem: the pacing was absolutely awful. Chapter 1 of this book was beautiful, perfect and everything I wanted. I was very excited. And then the rest of this book happens and …. What the hell? We get ZERO battle scenes! We simply skip past them! In fact, we skip past MANY events that I would have liked to read about. And the political scheming was nowhere near compelling enough to make up for this. There were no scenes of political machinations and the characters being sneaky and conniving. Things just happen in between the scenes we see.  Like Ouyang building up an entire faction loyal to him so he can remove Esen!! Did I miss the parts of this book where he was recruiting these people? Am I blind? Is my edition shortened? Because they seriously just appeared when he needed them to.  This book is quite short for this kind of story (about 400 pages long) which definitely didn’t help. It felt like scenes were missing from the story. Everything felt so surface-level. We get almost no scenes of characters just reflecting and thinking about their actions or their plans or their relationships to others. Because of this, I didn’t believe the depth of pretty much any of the relationships in this book. Ouyang obviously loves Esen but we get no proof of that or any scenes of them just chilling and showing their relationship. Ma and Zhu are quite good and believable, but I don’t believe Ma is as devoted to Zhu as the story would have us believe. Ouyang and Zhu supposedly have this incredible bond ordained by Heaven but they barely interact or know one another. This bond exists  just because. This book desperately needed MORE. My plan is that Brandon Sanderson gives some of his character page-time from Rhythm of War to this book and boom the world is in alignment. I will still read book 2 because I’m intrigued about what’s going to happen and eager to learn more about this part of history, but I’m nowhere near as excited about it as I should be. So, sadly, 2/5 stars. This was no certainly no  Poppy War  and I am genuinely disappointed by that. Let’s hope for some actual characterisation in book 2.