LSG Book Club read, January 2013. If this is relevant to you, the appropriate thread is here. We're not spoiler-free any more (although this review, I hope, is), so be warned. Go forth.In The Last Dragonslayer, Jennifer Strange (if you can picture Thursday Next without quite as much cynicism, and with a way better pet) is a foundling who looks after wizards in an alternative Herefordshire that borders on the lands of a dragon. By the end of the book, that dragon is going to die. The title knows it, I know it, basically the entire cast except Jennifer Strange knows it, and when that dragon dies, his lands will go to the first person who claims them. The premise of this book is a land war. Amazing! I love books with land wars in them, and also dragons. This dragon is an excellent dragon. Anyway, it's up to Jennifer Strange, for reasons that make themselves apparently slowly and steadily, to prevent the war, and hopefully also to protect the dragon. She fails at at least one of these.And that was a thing that I really liked about this book. In a world where not many people can do magic, and all of them are pretty cool, the main character can't do magic. She's not special. She gets stuff right, but some of that is by accident, and she gets other stuff wrong, but for rational reasons, and that's a genuine spanner in the works. Jennifer Strange is a really good protagonist, and an excellent YA protagonist. Another thing I liked was that the country she comes from is not the underdog - it is the biggest nation around, and if there's a war, It Will Win. That, I thought, was dealt with really well. From reading other Fforde books, he has a very characteristic flavour of worldbuilding - quirky, idealist, with a lot to say about bureaucracy, the distribution of power and big business. This book fits very well into that kind of world, and although the world itself is something I can tire of easily, I can see that it's a good place to put this particular story. Having said that, the best thing about the worldbuilding for me was Fforde's system of magic - I'm a sucker for a good magic system, especially if it's explained well, with great lashings of plausible pseudoscience. This was marvellous and I loved it. And if you get thirty pages into this book without thinking, "I need a Quarkbeast in my life," then it's entirely possible that you have no soul.The trouble is, ah... look, it was perfectly serviceable. I enjoyed reading it. There were just no sparks. As usual with these things, I thought the ending was dealt with too quickly. Will somebody please give me a book with good set-up and actual war-related wranglings? If you do I will love you forever. But that's not even the trouble. That's - partly, at least - me wanting to read a different book. The main trouble I had with The Last Dragonslayer was stylistic.Jasper Fforde, as I believe I've mentioned before, is a very deliberate writer. He does things on purpose. He tries very hard. I've only ever read The Eyre Affair by him before, and just like that, I found the humour in The Last Dragonslayer a bit heavygoing. It wasn't that it was difficult, or that it was confusing, but he quite obviously puts it there on purpose, and invites you to comment on having noticed it. It doesn't feel light, or spontaneous - it took an embarassing amount of time for me to stop thinking, "Yes, well done, I see what you did there," and actually get around to enjoying it. And when I did that, the whole thing bloomed. There was not a lot of subtlety, which was a shame, because there was an awful lot of room for subtlety. Occasionally, there'd be a bit - the scene between Jennifer and Maltcassion the dragon made me happy. It was so promising! But not promising enough, or consistent enough, for me to grin broadly and bump this up a star. I liked it, it was good fun, but it didn't feel smooth. It grated just a little too much.I'd still recommend this to a lot of people, and if I ever find myself babysitting again, this is going right up the top of my list of books to read with anyone over the age of nine or ten. I can see why people can love this book, and I do like it. Just... not quite enough, I'm afraid.