Ahoy there me mateys! While drawin’ up me lists of 2016 for me log, I realized a curious thing – out of 134 books read, not a single one was a re-read. In me enthusiasm of discovery and taking suggestions from me crew, I did not revisit a single old port for plunder! And part of what I love about readin’ is re-visitin’ old friends. So I decided to remedy that and thus created me new category where I take a second look at a previously enjoyed novel and give me crew me second reflections, as it were, upon visitin’ it again . . .I wanted a light read of something I knew I loved so I could just savor part of me weekend. This was absolutely perfect. I don’t know when I first discovered this novel as it was certainly way before this current log but I am glad to have revisited this old friend.This is definitely one to recommend to me crew. The story involves a young plucky intelligent orphan who helps run Kazam which is an agency of magicians. Of course she is not supposed to be in charge but her boss disappeared! She is trying to hold down the fort but of course everything is going wrong.Now ye think of magic and it sounds awesome. Well magic has been fading from the land and people hire magicians to do unexciting things like deliver pizza via magic carpet. The magicians are poor and struggling. This aspect of the world-building is absolutely awesome. I love how the magic works (or doesn’t) and how it is used. In fact the overall world-building is an absolute delight.The story itself is whimsical and funny and clever and absurd. Jennifer is an excellent main character who of course is intelligent, honorable, snarky, practical, and awesome. The other characters are almost as wonderful. I want a Quarkbeast . . . I think.It sort of has a similar feel of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles so if ye liked those then pick this up. Actually if ye haven’t read those books then do yerself a favor and get that series and this one. Ye won’t regret it.Side note: Apparently book three has been out since 2015 and I never knew. I now know what me next two reads are going to be! Arrr!Check out me other reviews at https://thecaptainsquartersblog.wordp...