I think that most people will go into this book expecting it to be like a Realm of the Elderlings novel. It’s got very mixed reviews and most people end up disappointed with it. Now I waited a good 5 months after I finished RotE before starting this. I read some of Hobb’s short fiction in this time and knew I could read and be impressed by a story from her that wasn’t set in that world. It made me realise that it wasn’t just her characters that I love, but her writing and stories. So I ended up finishing this book impressed to say the least. This is the first book in the Soldier Son trilogy. This trilogy is NOT set in the RotE world. It is a completely separate story in a different world. It is heavily military focused so keep this in mind, if you aren’t a fan of military themes in your fantasy I wouldn’t recommend this. In this world, everyone has their right place. First born sons inherit, second born sons become soldiers and so on. Everyone’s role is determined by the order of their birth and so everyone does as is expected of them. Our main character is the second born son and so will become a soldier. Nevare’s story starts when he is a young boy and this book follows him to his early manhood. He faces many trials and obstacles, learns his role, acquires friends and enemies and has to survive life at the Academy. Nevare is very different to Fitz from RotE and the reader only has to read a chapter or so before they realise that this will be a very different story. I liked Nevare as a character, he was naive and innocent at the beginning. He goes through so much and has to learn who he is the hard way. But it gave his character great strength and believability. Nothing compares to the way that Hobb can develop a character. He is so uncertain at the beginning, and so is the reader. As the story progresses and Nevare learns his limits and morals, his boldness and inner strength starts to bloom. By the end of the book I really started to care for him, which is always important for me. The side characters were all well developed as well. Everyone had their own story and history and they were all distinct enough that it never got confusing. The events towards the end of the book meant that not everyone comes through the book unscathed. I definitely felt saddened by the events later in the book. They surprised me in how unrelenting and miserable things got. Hobb really knows how to write tragedy and woe. I’d like to add the I really liked the feminist angle presented in this book by Epiny. She ignores the what is socially acceptable for a woman and carved her own path in a world ruled by men. It was nice to read about some girl power. Now I do have some complaints about this book. Firstly is that the book is terribly slow. Many of Hobb’s books are slow but this was slower for me than any of her others. If you don’t like Hobb’s RotE books because of how slow they are then you will hate this book. Honestly it doesn’t get interesting until around the 400 page mark. I was very unsure what I was going to rate this book up until this point. The last 200 pages were really great though. And for me, made up for the lack of pace in the first 400 pages. No matter how slow her books are, after reading so many I know that patience pays off and her storytelling always emerges the victor. Another issue I had was that I wished we learned more of the Specks. I’m sure we will in the next few books, but we didn’t even scratch the surface of them in this one. I’m really interested in seeing where this trilogy goes. I have the utmost faith in Hobb and now that I am invested in the story I can’t wait to carry on and continue on Nevare’s journey.