I waited the book for months and months, also named myself as Vladimir who is waiting for Godot forever! Of course my request stays at the NetGalley limbo space with other thousands of my requests doing boogie dance together. (I don’t want to visualize them dusted, positioned at the bookshelves kind of purgatory!) So as a patient reading, high five-d myself for releasing day (actually I slapped my nose, I couldn’t do a proper high five for years and always missing the other person’s hand or always find them on my face!!!!) Reading this book is seeing a dream into dream into dream. I felt like jumped into full throttle triple time intensive Inception universe. (So I visualized most of the book’s characters as Leo and Tom which made my day and give me an amazing selfie smile all day long!) So you’re reading amazing story about intertwined magical stories. It’s a mind-bending brain storming process because narrator jumps between stories and your grey cells get used to run marathons to catch where the main story goes and gather the crumbles left for you like Hansel and Gretel. But I have to admit at the final you find better place than a house made of sweets (Yes, I actually found my fountain of Chardonnay when I caught the simple rhythm of the stories. Let’ drink to that!) But I still feel the smoke coming out of my ears because this kind of brain gymnastic has side effect like over exhaustion and dismantle the rest of remaining brain cells. Luckily I know the feeling because I read too many Blake Crouch books that make me prepare this kind of mind-blowing experience. I like challenges! Bring it on!I also have to admit Morgenstern is a magician. She can bend words, add different meanings, put a lyrical touch to enchant you. Just like Night Circus, the same thing happened to me. I hear a wonderful symphony in my head and waltz in my room, remembering those intriguing, magical stories you want to keep reading. Even the book is too long, you don’t want to stop flipping pages and get lost in those creatively depicted universes and of course you never get bored and enjoy each second of your experience.Did I like it? NOOOOOO!!! I LOVEEEEDDDD IT SOOOO MUCCCHHH( I’m screaming right now but thankfully you can only sense my excitement from the big caps and wrong grammar usage :) )And don’t forget to enjoy every words about heartwarming, tempting love tale of Zachary and Dorian. It’s not about modern love it is about to find the person reminds you a place you could lose yourself in and never wish to be found. DEEP SIGH. Yes. I truly love it. Period!bloginstagramfacebooktwitter