I’d like to start off this review by saying that my one star-ing of this book is NOT simply a bashing on Sanderson. I have many problems with this book and they fall at the feet of both Sanderson and Jordan. I have been an avid reader of the Wheel of Time novels for the last decade--as a thirteen year old I fell in love with the books. At the time Jordan was still writing what would be his last books, and I reveled in them. I am by no means an avid defender of Jordan’s writing, particularly his abysmal approach to romance, but I still count The Wheel of Time novels among my favorite books. Of course, his death was crushing and I knew it would be the end of the “typical WoT book.” I was pleasantly surprised with Sanderson’s first two books—even with the ABSOLUTE murder of Mat’s character—and I was incredibly eager to read the final chapter. Unfortunately for me, it was an incredible let down. In order to limit myself and not go on a ten page rant on everything I could say about this book, I’ve condensed issues into four categories that I think are most detrimental to the book. One: Characters barely stay true to what they’ve been built up over fourteen books to be.My fellow reviewer Mel says it best: “Every character speaks with the same voice. If you removed the names, I think it would be almost impossible to determine who might be speaking.”The characters feel more like chess pieces to move the plot than characters with different motives. The most glaring example of this is in a certain warrior who has gone through significant character development in recent books: deciding that he is not a man alone, a lone warrior on the field, but is actually a man, a husband and his life matters and is more than just a weapon against shadow. He makes the choice to be a leader instead of the point guard. Then he makes a choice that is completely contrary to everything his previous development pointed to, it's the stupidest decision in WoT history--even more stupid than the many stupid decisions of one sun-haired princess, which is saying something. This just screams "I NEEDED HIM FOR PLOT." This is basically my second point…Two: Secondary characters are tossed around like rag-dolls. This one I am laying at the feet of Sanderson. The WoT books are absolutely teeming with secondary characters, and they are one of my favorite parts of Jordan’s writing. Even if a character wasn’t one of the thirteen or so big players, they still were treated like they mattered. Secondary characters in AMOL are nothing. Some important (Elaida) and some less important (Lini, Thera) characters are not even seen in this book. Many that appear are mentioned in passing, the reader not knowing their final fate. Scores of secondary characters die, which is not unreasonable in itself, but their deaths are often just footnotes—only noteworthy for how it may impact the plans of the Primary. I’d say this is the biggest difference between Jordan and Sanderson: Jordan treated secondary characters like full, realized characters who happen to be in the background of the story he is telling. Sanderson treated secondary characters like devices he can pull out and throw away when he needs some plot filler or some sad moment to take up space. Three: The incredible lack of emotional involvement or response.The book reads as if most characters have the emotional range of toddlers. The return of perhaps the most pivotal character in the series is met with all of the circumstance of a long wait in a dentist’s lobby. This character has significant and unresolved relationships with every single primary character, and their re-entry onto the stage is not an emotional gorefest as it should be, but is--quite literally--a small expression of shock, a hug and a handshake. As disappointed as I was with this scene, the overall theme of “Events Have No Emotional Consequence” is continued throughout the book. As I’ve already hinted, and as you might expect, the last book of a sweeping epic about the struggle between good and evil contains a fairly large amount of character deaths. However, even significant character deaths seem to be gotten over in seconds by the survivors. One can easily argue that it is war--the aptly named Last Battle--and there is no room for the survivors to grieve, but I am just not buying it. One character looses what amounts to their entire family and the totality of writing devoted to the reactions to those deaths can be counted in sentences—not paragraphs. Even AFTER the battle is over, there is a scant few sentences concerning the consequences of death. This brings me to my last point. Four: Absolutely no closure. In my opinion, it is simply criminal to end a fifteen volume epic with: The Big Bad was dealt with. The end. What the hell happens to these characters that I have grown up with? What are the goddamn consequences of this war? Do the survivors have long and happy lives? Do they have kids? Do they pine over their lost friends? I didn’t sink ten years of my life into these people to be told: “Yeah, they live. Bye.”It may be that I was spoiled by Tolkien, because he respected his characters enough to give them endings. Not knowing what happens to all of these characters is such an enormous disappointment, and I am more saddened by that than anything that happened in AMOL. I’ll end with one last analogy. My most important critique of AMOL is that it is too much of a catalog. If you read a history of the most important events of WWII and then read Elie Wiesel’s  Night , it would be clear that the first was a book of momentous events, but the second was a book of  immensity.  AMOL is far too much of the former and far, far too little of the latter. And as someone who fell in love with all of the characters of WoT, I feel like I deserved more from their final story. And much more importantly they--as men and women, as kings and queens, as warriors and witches, as blacksmiths and barmaids, as gamblers and scholars, as healers and handmaidens, as shepherds and innkeeper’s daughters—-they deserved better.