Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐🌟Genre: Epic FantasyWarning: This review is all spoilersThis will be a very difficult review to write as this book is stuffed with events. The Wheel of Time is one of the most beloved epic fantasy series. I started reading the series for the first time in January 2020 (Just when the pandemic started spreading worldwide) and finished all the 14 books in July 2021. The prequel book is still unread and I plan to read it sometime this year too. It’s been a great long journey. This beautiful series has provided me with escapism from all the tensions and problems that real life has been imposing. A totally different world with its own tensions and new characters. The series has been a friend of mine during that time. Yes, there were many frustrations but again no friend is perfect and these characters like any person were flawed too. A Memory of Light stands by its name. I feel this series and its finale will always stay in my memory and will lighten my heart with its epicness. The book can be divided into three parts, the preparation for Tarmon Gai'don (The Last Battle), then The Last Battle itself, and the events after the battle. The battle alone is more than 200 pages! Let me say that I have never read anything like that before, anything that grand and epic. While I was reading this book I was breathing and couldn’t read it sitting still somewhere. I had to sit, stand, sit, stand, and walk while reading due to the tension that Brandon Sanderson kept injecting into the story. The Last Battle has its own chapter, but the point of view kept switching from one character to another quickly. Sanderson did a very effective job in keeping the stress and tension building up like a big moving ice ball. I am going to mention the major highlights of the book as per some of the characters. I think this will be a good way to pay my farewell to these wonderful characters.Egwene al'Vere (The Amyrlin Seat): “She, Egwene al’Vere, had been given stewardship of this land.She, the Amyrlin Seat, would not be bullied by the Shadow any longer.She would not retreat. She would not bow as her resources failed.She would fight.”Egwene is a character not many fans of the series love. I was impartial to her in the early books of the series but in the last few books and since she was elected as the Amyrlin Seat I was very fond of her, of her courage and determination. To me personally, she is not just the Flame of Tar Valon but also the flame of the last battle. I felt devastated by her fall. It was not even a fall as she died bravely. Her face-off with M’Hael was epic in every sense. I got upset when the other characters died, but I had to stop reading and put my hands on my head in that scene when Egwene was gone. It crushed my heart, devastated me. While fighting Taim she finds out a new weave that does the opposite of what Balefire does. It gives an explanation of why the Amyrlin Seat is called The Flame of Tar Valon.She has other important scenes in the book too. Her argument with Rand will get you frustrated with her but her confrontation with Tuon shows how determined she is and sticking to her own principles. In my opinion, Brandon Sanderson has given her the best death scene in this book, maybe because she is the only one from the Two River folks who actually dies in the battle. I just wish the Aes Sedai women had done something for her after the battle. A memorial or something. Rest in peace Amyrlin Seat. You will never be forgotten. Matrim Cauthon (The Prince of Ravens):He is the real hero of The Last Battle. After finding out that the war generals are suffering from compulsion by one of the forsaken, The Prince of Ravens leads the battle. The gambler as they call him decides to take risks and push his good luck. With some great planning, he is able to win against the forces of shadow.Mat’s funny personality keeps him a favorite among the fans for the right reasons. My favorite scene of him is his reunion with Rand when Rand wanted the Seanchans to sign the peace treaty. That scene was funny with the boys bragging about who has done more 😁😂.“By the way, I saved Moiraine. Chew on that as you try to decide which of the two of us is winning.”Rand al'Thor (The Dragon Reborn):Rand is almost absent from the battle itself as he along with Moiraine and Nynaeve go to Shayol Ghul to the Pit of Doom to defeat Shai’tan and fulfill the prophecy. I liked his confrontation with the Dark Lord and how they kept showing each other what the world would be like if it was without the shadow or without the light. Yeah, sometimes it was frustrating to see others being killed while Rand was trapped there. I read somewhere that the dialogue between the two forces was actually part of Robert Jordan’s notes. Rand’s fight with Moirdin was interesting and the trick with his sword Callandor was a fantastic addition.I still don’t know how I feel about the ending though. The body-swap thing. I am not sure if I like it or hate it. I feel this still has not settled well in my mind. “HERE IS YOUR FLAW, SHAITAN— LORD OF THE DARK, LORD OF ENVY! LORD OF NOTHING! HERE IS WHY YOU FAIL! IT WAS NOT ABOUT ME. IT’S NEVER BEEN ABOUT ME!""It was about a woman, torn and beaten down, cast from her throne and made a puppet—a woman who had crawled when she had to. That woman still fought.""It was about a man that love repeatedly forsook, a man who found relevance in a world that others would have let pass them by. A man who remembered stories, and who took fool boys under his wing when the smarter move would have been to keep on walking. That man still fought.""It was about a woman with a secret, a hope for the future. A woman who had hunted the truth before others could. A woman who had given her life, then had it returned. That woman still fought.""It was about a man whose family was taken from him, but who stood tall in his sorrow and protected those he could.""It was about a woman who refused to believe that she could not help, could not Heal those who had been harmed.""It was about a hero who insisted with every breath that he was anything but a hero.""It was about a woman who would not bend her back while she was beaten, and who shone with the Light for all who watched. Including Rand."It was about them all.”Perrin Aybara (Perrin Goldeneyes):Sanderson decides to keep Perrin asleep while the battle is going on. Perrin is a character with nice characteristics and values but he has not been consistently good in the series. Sometimes his side story took forever to wrap up. In A Memory of Light, he is in the Tel'aran'rhiod or Wolf Dreamworld for two things, one is to protect Rand and the other is to defeat Slayer and get his revenge. There he meets Lanfear who is still playing her tricks. Although I was frustrated by his sleep I still think his role was important for the story. I liked his fight with Slayer and the fast movement between the real world and the dream world. His last scene with Lanfear was not expected, for a moment I thought he would obey her! The search for Faile was heartbreaking.“The Light willing, we will see one another again," Rand said. He held out his hand to Perrin. "Watch out for Mat. I'm honestly not sure what he's going to do, but I have a feeling it will be highly dangerous for all involved.""Not like us," Perrin said, clasping Rand's forearm. "You and I, we're much better at keeping to the safe paths.”Elayne Tarkand (Queen of Andor):Despite being pregnant she still leads her army to The Last Battle. She is the first to sign the Dragon’s Peace treaty despite objecting to certain clauses. In the battle, I thought that Sanderson was going to kill her too after she was kidnapped and her warder Brigette was beheaded but she was saved when the Horn of Valere was sounded. I like how she was leading her army bravely in the battle and how she wanted to remain on the battlefield so that her soldiers would see that their queen was fighting too. “How would you feel”, Elayne said softly, “if you saw your queen trying to kill a Trolloc with a sword as you ran away?”“I’d feel like I needed to bloody move to another country” Brigette snapped, loosing another arrow, “one where the monarchs don’t have pudding for brains”.Moiraine Damodred:She was my favorite character right from book one and a favorite of many fans of the series. I felt sad about her death in book 5. Was very glad to see her back in book 13. Her biggest highlight in this book is her reunion with Rand and all the others during the peace treaty in the tent. Her meeting with these folks felt very emotional. She was able to put a stop to the argument between Rand and Egwene regarding the seals in her usual elegant way. I just love her! Unfortunately other than that she was not used in the battle as she goes with Rand to the Pit of Doom. Another thing that disappointed me was the author ignoring her reunion with Lan! Why? Just why? I really wanted to see how they would behave. Lan used to be her warder and they had this bond for years. You cannot ignore that and expect readers to be OK with it. “Do not worry, Egwene,” Moiraine said, smiling. “He is not going to break the seals.”Rand’s face darkened.Egwene smiled.“You are going to break them,” Moiraine said to Egwene.“What? Of course I’m not!”“You are the Watcher of the Seals, Mother,” Moiraine said. “Did you not hear what I said earlier? ‘It shall come to pass that what men made shall be shattered, and the Shadow shall lie across the Pattern of the Age, and the Dark One shall once more lay his hand upon the world of man . . .’ It must happen.”Nynaeve al'Meara (The Queen of Malkier):Like Moiraine, she is another beloved and popular character, and unfortunately, like her, she has not much to do in this book as well because she is with Rand fighting his battle instead of being with her other friends. Her presence with Rand is because he trusts her and needs her to use Callandor.Her presence as a healer with Rand becomes useful to save Alanna’s life in order to protect the Dragon Reborn. However, I think her best appearance is her reunion with Moiraine. Nynaeve used to be always frustrated with Moiraine but in the last few books, she was getting emotional every time she remembered the woman. “Nynaeve enfolded Moiraine in a powerful embrace.Moiraine stood for a moment, smelling distinctly shocked, hands out to the sides. Finally, she returned the embrace in a somewhat maternal way, patting Nynaeve on the back.Nynaeve released her, pulling back, then wiped a tear from her eye. “Don’t you dare tell Lan about this” She growled.”Lan Mandragoran (The King of Malkier):In the last two books of the series, Lan finally gets his due, his much deserved stature. He leads the army of Malkieri in the last battle and takes down Demandred with his sword after three failed attempts by others. I'd say that was his best appearance in the book and the most important to the story taking down a very strong evil force.“Demandred felt at the wound in his cheek, and his eyes opened wider. “Who are you?” Demandred asked.“I am the man who will kill you.”Aviendha:She asks Rand to include the Aiel in the peace treaty proposed by The Dragon Reborn. Later she fights one of the forsaken, Graendal and manages to defeat her. However, she ends up with permanent damage to the legs due to a huge explosion making her unable to walk anymore. Poor Aviendha!Min Farshaw:One of the influential characters in the story and one of Rand’s three lovers. In this book, she becomes Tuon’s Doomseer and saves her life from an assassination attempt during the Last Battle. It was interesting how she reacted to reveal the spy to Tuon.Cadsuane Melaidhrin:She remains in Shayol Ghul to fight alongside Rand forces and manages to save Aviendha’s life from the intruding Red Aiels. I think her most vivid scene is the last one where she is asked by the other Aes Sedai women to become the new Amyrlin Seat. I thought they would ask Moiraine but obviously, Cadsuane is the most sensible choice. Throughout the series, Cadsuane has always been Glenn Close to me!Siuan Sanche + Gareth Bryne:Unfortunately, this pair did not get their due in the Last Battle. First thing I don’t understand how Compulsion was used on Gareth despite being Siuan’s warder! How come Siuan did not feel the Compulsion when it was done? That did not make sense to me.Siuan was a very strong woman. I feel her death was sudden and did not suit her character. Gareth on the other hand dies off pages. I wish they had a better ending. Gawyn Trakand + Galad Damodred:The half-brothers are both defeated by Demandred. Galad survives and fares better in the sword fight with Demandred but he gets a permanent arm injury.Gawyn’s death causes turmoil for Egwene. It gets very painful when Silviana takes Egwene out of the battlefield to recover from her loss. I liked how Egwene reminded Silviana how Gawyn had saved her life from the assassins when she heard her say that Gawyn was nothing but trouble.Tam al'Thor:He has a great role in the fighting on the battlefield leading the Two River army, but what I loved the most was his swordplay practice with Rand and how he kept telling him to let go of everything. That was one of the big highlights in the book.Demandred:He is the real antagonist of The Last Battle. He was there to fight Rand but that never happened. He was leading all the Shadow forces and this forsaken was very strong. Even Logain could not defeat him, which I thought he would. I didn’t expect Lan to be the one who takes him down.Graendal:She is the most wicked one of the forsaken. Her plan has always been to cause harm without revealing herself. She kept using compulsion again and again on her foes. I feel she and Demandred had done more of the harm in the last book than the other forsaken.Lanfear:Has always been among those who were not loyal to anybody but herself. She would use others and create opportunities for herself. In this book, she remained in the dream world and had her eyes on Perrin to reach her goal. Androl Genhald + Pevara Tazanovni:These two are characters created by Brandon Sanderson. Some of the fans of the series might say that they were not needed and the time that was spent on them would have been better if spent on the older characters like Morgase Tarkand who hardly was there despite losing a son. I might have agreed with that opinion if I did not enjoy their bond. I liked these two and love how both of them tricked the Turned Asha’men taking them to Stedding Sholoon. I feel their addition added some warmth and also an indication of a future change among the Red Ajah. But I still say that some of the older characters like Logain and Morgase must’ve had much bigger parts.This must be the longest review I have ever written but still, I feel I have skipped a lot. The book is truly stuffed so it is not easy to remember and mention every event or character so I guess that suffices for now. A Memory of Light must be one of the best finales I have read for a series. Brandon Sanderson has done a great job with the last three books to wrap up the story. Yes, not everything is perfect but it is a satisfying ending overall. For the last 18 months, a Wheel of Time book has always been there on my reading shelf waiting for me to dive into this epic tale. I am really going to miss the series. Like how Tam advised his son to “let go” I feel I have to try to let go too and say farewell.Note: I am still experimenting with my review system. As you might notice I have given this book five stars + a glowing star which makes it a 6-star review. My plan is to create a category with 6-star reviews which will represent my all-time favorite books. Not all 5-star books are all-time favorites so that would be a good way to differentiate between them. I still have not decided whether I will add the previously read books to this new category or not. I shall see what needs to be done.