Well here we are and it is finally over. It has been so long and yet not long enough.₪₪₪My Wheel of time journey lasted:₪₪₪14 months - with my great friends at BB&B There were 11308 pagesOver 4 Million Words A staggering 19 days, 5 hours and 25 minutes of amazing audioWith 147 Unique PoVs and 1379 total PoVsAnd a staggering cast of over 2200 charactersThe world building is immense and I’m not sure anyone does that better than Robert Jordan did. Although I believe that Sanderson might give him a run for his money. The characters were infuriating. This is one of the only books series I’ve read where I’ve spent 80% of the time in various states of dissatisfaction with most of the characters for some reason or another but still liked the overall story. One of my biggest pet peeves of the entire series was Rand and his Three loves I really hated that in the end I never felt like he loved any of them. Maybe Min….I think she is his soul mate but he didn’t really spend much time with Avienda or Elayne and yet they are totally devoted and in love with him ugh…. Min is awesome though and one of the few characters in the series I was never upset with.There is really no way that after a journey like this you won’t have a plethora of feelings. If you are a huge fantasy reader then I think this is one of those series you have to tackle sometime in your life. There are a few slower books that ooze of worldbuilding, political maneuvering and characters but no serious plot movement and then there are the final 4 books of the series that are amazing and it feels like everything happened in.There are things I loved in this series and things I really hated but overall I enjoyed the journey I went on. Some people survived that I didn’t think would. Some people died that I thought were safe and it was heartbreaking. But then there are those heroic moments that original cast from the Two Rivers Rand, Mat, Perrin, Egwene and Nynaeve got to have and each one shone bright at the end no matter how they were dragged into their destiny. Still it is the end and for some of the side characters I wanted a little more info, hell for some of the main characters I wanted to know more. It isn’t perfect, there isn’t an epilogue set 5 or 10 or 20 years later and I really wanted one. I was very interested in the directions that some of the people left were going to take. But in an epic this big I guess it is impossible to tie up every last thing so I’ve filled in a few things for myself with some of the hopes and dreams I had for the remaining characters.My hat is off to Robert Jordan and Brandon Sanderson for undertaking this massive fantasy series. It is an amazing journey that I might one day take again because the wheel weaves as the wheel wills and there is no beginning and there are no endings, and never will be endings, to the turning of the Wheel of Time. But it was an ending.February Read With the Fantasy Fanatics of