* Initial Thoughts *This book... It's the LAST one in Wheel of Time, such a crazy long and epic series in all manner of ways that I can hardly believe I made it to the end. This one in particular had some fabulous quotes and moments within its pages and I read about 600pgs of it today which is ridiculous and crazy but very awesome. I think I need to sleep a bit on my thoughts and what I want to write as my full and final review so I'll probably come back to this tomorrow and add my actual 'review' but my Initial Thoughts are that it was a fairly perfect ending of course :)* Actual Review *Okay so I've now had a few days to process all of the thoughts I had surrounding this book and I have decided that this is certainly my favourite book from the whole Wheel of Time series. I think everything that Jordan ever envisioned and set up gets fully resolved and confronted within this 1,000+pg monster, and even though it's a long book everything works and feels balanced.This whole book is 'The Last Battle' which is something we've been working ou way towards for many of the previous books. Whilst the last two Sanderson books I gave 5*s to this is most definitely some very fine work on his part in oder to systematically address any and everything whilst also keeping the reader engaged and entertained throughout. There was honestly not a dull moment in this book or a section where I felt it needed to be cut down, everything was exciting.Of course we focus on many of our major characters throughout this book and we see not only the return of some characters we've not seen for a while, but also introductions of many new threats and coordinated attacks which our major characters and their followers need to face. I found the whole of the 'Last Battle' chapter (chap 37 which is over 200pgs long) to be highly intense and, considering it's SUCH an epic long battle fought on so many fronts, entirely readable! This is certainly something for Sanderson to be proud of because I'm often resistant to read battle heavy books and yet he managed to keep me hooked into the action throughout.Of course where there is battle there must be sacrifice and sadness and this book addressed both of those things very well by showing many of the main characters in tricky situations both physically and emotionally and even magically. I found myself totally absorbed in what was happening to who and who's plan was what and everything connected so well together that it all worked. The monsters and bad guys of the story definitely didn't shy away from making an appearance in this book and we had some pretty scary close calls and some tragic moments which I won't soon forget. As a lovely balance to this we also had some very whimsical, magical and touching moments which will equally hold a place in my heart for a long time.I have to say that if you have made it to the final book in this great series and you've been enjoying them as you go then this one is one to just sit back and enjoy. It's got something of everything I have enjoyed about the series and there's never a moment where I was bored. I read over 600 pages of this book in one day and spent a solid amount of time just being hooked into the story so it's one I can say with certainty deserves a 5*s from me. Bloody brilliant, well done to Sanderson and Jordan for planning such an epic finale!