Disclaimer: This is a combined review of all three books because I had to read everything in one go; else, I wouldn’t survive.My first thought after I slightly recovered (heavy emphasis on ‘slightly’) from the Captive Prince magic was, “This deserves a movie series!”And, “Why isn’t there a movie series yet?”Deviantart by: chiihunBecause no series is this vividly detailed yet deceptively good. From the onset, Pacat had created this intricate web – so perfectly woven and exquisitely crafted that you just can’t help but admire it, touch it and before you know it, you’ve been spun in her web, entangling you in silken beauty.Pacat is a master story teller. Every word, phrase, sentence is purposeful and relevant. Every metaphor, symbolism, and foreshadowing amplified yet subdued. Pacat reinvents the rules of storytelling. Her brand is hers and hers alone.I love every character she has introduced in each book. Each one, distinct and memorable. In each book, Pacat brought forth new flavors to old and new characters alike. No character stayed dormant with each one continuously evolving and growing along with the story. Damen and Laurent’s relationship arc was perfectly crafted. In the first half of the series, I was unsure of the romance, because nothing is absolute with Pacat. But I admire how she cultivated their romance such that it stayed more as an undercurrent rather than a raging torrent. When the dam finally broke, all the push and pull of anticipation had been worth it. Straightforward, honest Damen and cold, cunning Laurent – the perfect opposition; Fire and Ice. Until the end, the tension between the two never wavered. These characters alone have added an extra layer to an already gripping and intriguing storyline.Reading this series can be likened to watching an exclusive game of chess. Every move is well thought of, every twist a revelation. It’s a steadily building series where strategy is key and can either end with a king’s checkmate or both kings on a stalemate. But you have to reach the end to find out. *wink*