► No rating so far, possibly forever. I AM TOO CONFUSED.Involvement : I just binge read the three books in two days. I'm pretty sure that it speaks for itself. If not, DUH, these books are more addictive than Nutella. Exhilaration : You can't even imagine how deep I fell for Laurent. Give me a tortured, complex end borderline psycho heart, I'll be intrigued. Add a twisted and convoluted mind, I'll lose my breathe. Make him genuinely smile and I'll love him forever. God, how he made me laugh. I adore him and I MISS HIM ALREADY.Mirth : GAWD. Many scenes made me burst out laughing, helplessly trying to contain myself. Laurent and Damen's interactions were priceless and I'm still smiling thinking about them. The awkwardness!! GAH. It was the BEST.Perplexity : I'm sorry, but I can't wrap my head around Damen's naivety. When I call something in book one, I don't expect for the MC to act all surprised when it's revealed in book three. I mean, how fucking stupid is he to miss the billions clues popping out everywhere? Anticlimactic at its best, sadly. Disbelief : I'm not one to complain a lot about far-stretched plots in fantasy, but really, the ending did not sit well with me. Are these people for real? For all the ways that it could have ended, I found the last 20% hardly coherent and way too convenient for me to take it seriously. 1. I already stated that Damen's reaction to the fact that Laurent used to be his uncle's pet was anticlimactic while it's been bloody obvious since the middle of book 1 (and I'm generous).2. Jokaste's letter is completely out of character : we've been told since the start that she was a ruthless woman, clever and complex, and she would leave a letter stating that the child isn't Damen's? HOW FUCKING CONVENIENT. Wouldn't she want to keep this information secret to have a leverage against Damen if needed? I don't know, I might have accepted it if it hadn't been stated repeatedly that she was Laurent's equal in scheming.  3. The whole "trial" in Ios was a farce in so many accounts : the multiple twists, the convenient revelation of the Regent's part in Laurent's father death... I don't know, perhaps I'm too harsh, but everything was too neat for me to buy it.4. Kastor and Laurent's fight : So. Laurent has the time to bend over Damen and talk to him, while Kastor doesn't make any move to get to him. It seemed a little too convenient, again, to me. BUT. In the end, I'm bursting with - Pride : The growth and evolution of these well-rounded characters are part of the best I ever read, with loyalty and trust in the heart of them. I am so, so glad I gave these books a chance because trust me, this journey was a roller coaster of emotions, and it feels wrong to reduce it as a simple romance. This is more. So much more. This said, Kings Rising was notably focused on Laurent and Damen's relationship with a twist that I had wanted to be true for so long - I LOVED the fact that he knew. PERFECT, which wasn't the case in the two previous books. I won't say that it bothered me, given the fact that I've been waiting for some action since the beginning.*wiggles eyebrows* ► Don't let my pang of disappointment prevent you for meeting these characters. Albeit harsh (see my review of book one), C.S. Pacat's story will linger in my heart a very long time. PS. Thank you Navessa for your support through those. It was MUCH NEEDED.For more of my reviews, please visit: