I didn't think it possible, but Pacat has outdone herself. I literally finished this book 2 minutes ago and I'm breathless and flushed, and my heart pounds too fast. Don't expect a cool and collected review from me yet, for now I'll just go with: epic conclusion to a magnificent series.Review probably to come. :')Update 9/7/15: Aaaaaand we have an anticipation increasing blurb! And according to Penguin CP 3 will be 384 pages.:D Update 6/26/15: Official publication date for CP 3: 02-02-2016. I'm a tad surprised and disappointed that it won't be out for the holidays, but shortly after. Kings Rising snippet here. Update 6/23/15: 2 days now... Update 1/24/15: Not sure if everyone knows yet, but the title and cover for the third book (that 'leaked' earlier via an Australian ebook site) have been confirmed.;)  Source: Penguin Australia Kings. I know! Rising. I can't even. Update 1/24/15: Penguin's version of CP 1 is released on 4/7/15. CP 2 will be released on 7/7/15. This is how they are different from the earlier released versions: CP 1 contains a bonus story. CP 2 contains a new chapter. Are the extras worth buying the new versions? What do you guys think?!PS how much prettier is the Australian cover of CP 2 compared to the US cover? Gah.   Update 1/24/15: So! This is really intriguing, y'all. A friend (thanks Eva!) linked me to an Australian ebook site that had already published the expected publication date (10/28/15) and the title for book 3 on its website: KINGS RISING. Only hours later, the information was deleted again... Mysterious, no? Kings Rising....what do we think? Sounds like a legitimate (and oh so exciting) title? Update 11/4/14: Book 2 will be re-released in July 2015. So this could mean that book 3 may be released just before Christmas 2015. Think about it, it'd only make sense from a marketing perspective.:0)  Update 9/10/14: A reassuring update from the author on her website: She's still working on the manuscript for book 3, but promises that the 3 books will not be spaced anything like a year apart (see comments for my and friends' theories about the possible release dates). Update 9/2/14: We have an expected publication date for the first CP book (re-release): April 7th 2015. I know, with the current pacing we'll be gray and in wheelchairs by the time CP 3 finally sees the light of day.;pUpdate 5/5/14: The promised snippet from book 3 can be found HERE. Woop Woop!Update 4/8/14: Thanks to everyone who voted, Captive Prince won the DABWAHA tournament! Woot! C.S. Pacat's bribes include; a sneak-peak snippet from book 3, a DVD commentary for the sex scene in book 2 (complete with sexual position analysis), a manuscript-writing livestream where fans can chat and comment, an unofficial book 3 cover based on the original covers (pre-Penguin).Update 12/15/13: Did you guys all catch that, thanks to Rachel, there's a great Captive Prince group on Goodreads to discuss and fangirl/boy?Update 12/7/13: S.U. Pacat has changed her name into C.S. Pacat because "I made this change in conversation with various Penguins: we all thought it was better that I take this opportunity to choose a more serious author name that could have longevity across my writing career." (well, thank god for that! That 'funny' pen name was unworthy of the quality of her work). Other than that, no release date for book 3, but she's writing it faster than she had expected. So that's good. Full blog post here. Update 9/25/13: S.U. Pacat just posted a blog post with the latest news. Still no publication date for book 3, Penguin will not demand that Laurent is turned into Laurentia (thank god, LOL), there will be new covers (please no nekkid torsos!) ---------------------------------Captive Prince has been acquired by one of the largest publishers in the world: Penguin. Can you freaking believe it? Penguin has bought the entire trilogy and is going to release it in bookshops worldwide. Such marvelous, exciting news for the author and for all of us m/m addicts! This could be a milestone when it comes to more recognition for the genre (more on the author's blog: http://freece.livejournal.com/61483.html). Fantastic.:)I'm not a fan of reviews with tons of giant gifs of crazy, excited people in it. But if I was I would have pasted every single one of them into this review. The anticipation is simply killing me! :DI think I've found my soundtrack to these books.