“The books transported her into new worlds and introduced her to amazing people who lived exciting lives. She went on olden-day sailing ships with Joseph Conrad. She went to Africa with Ernest Hemingway and to India with Rudyard Kipling. She travelled all over the world while sitting in her little room in an English village.” 

~ Rating- 5 stars ~I could never rate it lower.This book just holds so much nostalgia for me.I remember picking it up from my school library. It was a dusty, old copy with tattered pages but each and every word in it was worth the read. I vividly remember flying through the book. I was intrigued, skipped my meals and just sat with this book till it was over. And I read it several times again in the future. 

“All the reading she had done had given her a view of life that they had never seen.” 

I really liked this book for all the important themes it explored and the way everything was portrayed. The characters were properly fleshed out and developed. The plot is interesting and kept me hooked. Everything about this book was amazing, and if you haven't read it, you need to read it now.I cannot properly review this book, but I have read it so many times in the past. It was my comfort read in a way. I'm just going to gush instead. 

“From then on, Matilda would visit the library only once a week in order to take out new books and return the old ones. Her own small bedroom now became her reading-room and there she would sit and read most afternoons, often with a mug of hot chocolate beside her.” 

Matilda as a character taught me that you don't have to fit it. Everyone doesn't need to like you for you to be happy in life. She taught me that you don't need to be dependent on others to act on something. She taught me that it is ok to not be ok, and she taught me to be fierce, brave and do what you must to bring yourself joy, but never at the cost of another person's happiness. 

“So Matilda’s strong young mind continued to grow, nurtured by the voices of all those authors who had sent their books out into the world like ships on the sea. These books gave Matilda a hopeful and comforting message: You are not alone.” 

Mrs. Honey's character was an inspiration for me when I first read the book. I aspired to be like her, helpful and generous. I do not know if I achieved that, but I would say her character was one of my first role models in my life.  

“What she needed was just one person, one wise and sympathetic grown-up who could help her.” 

Mrs. Honey taught me that everyone goes through their own struggles in life. You don't know what the other person is facing, but you can be their strength. You can show them kindness and gratitude, and you can let them know they are loved. 

“There aren’t many funny bits in Mr Tolkien either,’ Matilda said.‘Do you think that all children’s books ought to have funny bits in them?’ Miss Honey asked.‘I do,’ Matilda said. ‘Children are not so serious as grown-ups and love to laugh.” 

Matilda's family taught me, that there will be people in your life who may not approve of you. They may not like how you behave, they may not like that element about you that makes you you. And that's ok. Improving yourself for the better is one thing, but these characters taught me that you do not have to change yourself to please others. You do not have to change who you are. You can still be you.  

“There is little point in teaching anything backwards. The whole object of life, Headmistress, is to go forwards.” 

They taught me that just because someone is an adult, that doesn't mean that every single thing they do or say is right.  

“I'm right and you're wrong, I'm big and you're small, and there's nothing you can do about it.” 

This book was a huge part of my life. If it wasn't for Matilda, my life would have been very different now. I might have still learned these lessons, but in a different way. This is a book I treasure with all my heart, and I am so thankful to Roald Dahl for writing it. 

“Matilda said, "Never do anything by halves if you want to get away with it. Be outrageous. Go the whole hog. Make sure everything you do is so completely crazy it's unbelievable...” 

 DISCLAIMER- All opinions on books I’ve read and reviewed are my own, and are with no intention to offend anyone. If you feel offended by my reviews, let me know how I can fix it.  How I Rate-1 star- Hardly liked anything/ was disappointed2 star- Had potential but did not deliver/ was disappointed3 stars- Was ok but could have been better/ was average / Enjoyed a lot but something was missing4 stars- Loved a lot but something was missing5 stars- Loved it/ new favourite