Edit: Wow apparently my racism radar was accurate. Glad to see it's being discussed more. I should probably start this out by saying that I’m not a fan of bland white dude villains, or “morally grey” ones because I find that often they are underdeveloped and based entirely on society being ingrained to give them more of a chance to be likable than anyone else. Any hint of an anxious lip bite and people want to wrap them up in a blanket and protect them. I have a lot of other Thoughts about how bad this type of thinking is for society (teaching us to always find ways to justify and excuse bad behavior from white dudes and prioritizing their ability to be redeemed over the people they've hurt) and how books like this are extremely harmful but that will have to wait for another day. Any other groups as complex villains? Sign me the fuck up, most of those stories are more understanding and compelling. The villain/love interest in this book? No thanks. But I should have known considering I have absolutely no sympathy for Kylo Ren, and the author seems to be a big fan of that type/that character particularly. Take Kylo Ren and create even less of a backstory/reasoning for him, and you get this mess.  I’m also not necessarily adverse to enemy to lover ships but they have to be done well, which was absolutely not the case here, it was very insta-lovey. This book seemed to be all about Malachiasz, and in a poor way because it kept referring to him as anxious and lovable while also constantly talking about how evil he is, without really devoting itself to either, and it felt like that was essentially his whole personality. Also let's not mention how he is clearly an antisemitic stereotype with his blood magic, government control, and dark curly hair. This is incredibly frustrating because it's diversity without any actual diversity, he's given all of the issues of how people want to forgive white supremacists without any of the nuance of Jewish history. If this book had given any thought to him as a Jewish coded character other than writing just the stereotypes than you'd remove much of the complaints I had above, and it doesn't feel as if she's addressing those stereotypes. Rather, they're just being ignored so that he can be the lovable villain instead. It adds another layer to how the book talks about him as a boy, because he's part of all of these evil acts but naive enough that he can be saved from his wicked ways. Simultaneously, the relationship removed any agency from the main female character. Nadya is essentially just a love interest and becomes a minor figure in her own story. I should have known that too, considering that social media seems to be focused on the guy and not the actual main character. This is so frustrating because you can have a female main character who is well developed and with a compelling narrative that is about her while also still developing a love story. The characters were all bland, anyway. I’d say just write a book from his perspective but then that means no self insert love story or purple prose descriptions of how dark and evil he is instead of any actual relationship development! On top of that, there was no real spark between them, enemies to lovers requires a nice tension but I didn’t feel it at all, partially because of the lack of development for Nadya but also because even though they’re supposed to be enemies all they do is have some quips here and there and then flip flopping between opinions, such as when he scares her and then she laughs at a joke minutes later. There is a way to do this that adds to the conflict, but since everything was so poorly established this was not done here. And Nadya is like, supposedly so devoted to her lifestyle but drops it as soon as she meets Malachiasz. It’s as if the book didn’t want to develop that plot and let it get in the way of her vague ass other plot so she just used it as a prop and then dropped it immediately. But this also means that it is hard to say why they are enemies to begin with, when it’s just vague circumstances and a lifestyle that she is supposedly devoted to. I also got some racist vibes from this book. The non white characters basically only ever got called by their descriptors and nationalities (including “creatures of the desert” which yikes), even after their names were known, and could basically be removed from the story with no impact. The world building felt very incomplete, the whole story felt incredibly rushed while also boring.