Son of the Shadows is a worthy follow-up to Marillier's Daughter of the Forest. While I had some reservations about reading this book (mainly because it took me forever to finish the 1st book), the sequel turned out to be a much quicker read.The narrator of this book is Sorcha's younger daughter - Liadan. Up till her 16th year, the life has been good to the family, but suddenly things are starting to change for the worse - Sorcha is sick and has months to live; a dangerous outlaw called the Painted Man is close-by and threatens to unsettle Sevenwaters' alliances; Niamh, Liadan's beautiful older sister, is caught having an affair with a wrong-wrong man. Liadan's adventure begins when she is kidnapped by the mysterious Painted Man in route to deliver Niamh to her new (quickly arranged) husband to cover up her sins. Inexplicably, Liadan falls in love with the infamous Painted Man and her life gets even more complicated - the Fair Folk, the family loyalties, the prophecy, and her heart are pulling her in different directions and it seems almost impossible for Liadan to hold on to everything that is dear to her.Son of the Shadows is a beautifully written novel, even though it spoke to me less than its predecessor. If Daughter of the Forest is an epic tale of sacrifice and courage, this sequel is more of a historical romance, only it is a million times better than an average historical bodice-ripper - with complex and compelling characters, wonderful Irish lore, and beautiful scenes of love, bravery, loyalty, and death.Just like Sorcha, Liadan is a strong and admirable heroine. In many ways she is very similar to her mother - she is smart, loyal, courageous, and yet more outspoken and more proactive. Her love interest, Bran, is a great characters too. Aside from his unorthodox looks, he is a deeply wounded man with a shadow past and many aches which only Liadan can heal. The couple's story is very touching and intense.The book explores deeper the Prophecy mentioned in Daughter of the Forest. Who is this person who will save Erin, is still not clear, but I am definitely eager to find out and therefore will read Child of the Prophecy.