*** 3.25 ***A buddy read with my friends at FBR! Because we love Fantasy!!! Another one of those books I should have been crazy about, but it some how missed the mark with me... And this time I know for sure it is me, because I just didn't connect with or liked the main character... Although at first glance Sorcha from the first book should have been very much like her daughter Liadan, the main POV here, I rooted for Sorcha and I had a deep connection with her, while Liadan was distant and judgmental, making it really hard to even like her, let alone develop any attachment to her... Liadan has a twin brother who is being raised to be the next Lord of Sevenwaters and with whom she has this deep mental connection and closeness. SHe also has an older sister, Niamh, who is not perfect, but not much different than any young woman in her teens battered by hormones, and the family, including Liadan, treat her and judge her very harshly, getting rid of her in a cold hearted way and washing their hands off of her, while for same types of indescretions and willfulness Liadan gets reproachful looks and reassurances that she could never disappoint them and they will love her no matter what... I expected better from Red and Sorcha as parents and from their offspring. However, I guess this is the whole point - none are perfect and all new generations have to solve some old wrongs and get new wrongs done to be dealt by the next generations... "...“Your actions are your own. Your choices are your own. Each of us carries a burden of guilt for decisions made or not made. You can let that rule your whole life or you can put it behind you and move on. Only a madman lets jealousy determine the course of his existence. Only a weak man blames others for his own errors.” ..."The setting for this series is based on the British Isles and Celtic Myth, with some vague allusions to Brit History. The family who rules in Sevenwaters is descendant from a human and one of the Old Ones, thus it has a deep connection with the mystical lure in the land and all that grows there. They have been responsible for bringing the Druid religion back and at times communicate with the Fae, thus magic always plays a role in what happens with them. With the Brits and Christianity becoming more and more prevalent and taking over sacred Isles, the magic traditions and existence are threatened and Sorcha and her family have become of interest to all players involved, being used as a tool on one side or the other. Liadan is the child that was born outside of the predicted pattern and is much freer in making choices for her future. SHe takes full advantage of that when she meets a mysterious mercenary and his gang, and her view of the future changes dramatically. This leaves people feeling betrayed, alliances broken and new patterns are being created, for good or ill. "...“Don't you long for something different to happen, something so exciting and new it carries you along with it like a great tide, something that lets your life blaze and burn so the whole world can see it? Something that touches you with joy or with terror, that lifts you out of your safe, little path and onto a great, wild road whose ending nobody knows? Don't you ever long for that?” ..."Be careful what you wish for...!This book followed the general formula of the one which preceded it and that is not bad, I just missed all the emotional involvement I was amerced into with the first one. Liadan was only a pale imitation of Sorcha and only the cameo appearances of the uncles and the gang of mercenaries made up for that. I loved the big brutes with great hearts and I was enchanted by the lyrically magical presence of the uncle who has one arm and one Swan wing... The prose was beautiful as always, but the constant repetition of the belief that true love does not exist, but is an enchantment, a spell the woman casts on the man so he loves and wants to please her at all times, pisses me off!!! Once again! I am going to have to add a shelf for books which seem to make this an acceptable believe, and I just don't want to, since I want that to go away... Thank you for calling all women who have ever been loved witches, as in all times of human history!!! I am really going to have to accept that I am a witch and get over it, I guess:):):)"...“The world is simple, I think, in its essence. Life, death, love, hate. Desire, fulfillment. Magic.” ..."I am planing on reading on, since the storytelling is really engaging and once I start the books, I can't put them down. So, if you love Fantasy with Celtic Mythology and Romance, this is a series you should check and see if it works for you! Now I wish you Happy Reading and may you always find what you Need in the pages of a Good Book!!!