Does anyone else remember the Whoopi Goldberg film ‘A Knight in Camelot’? ‘First Knight’ with Richard Gere as an American accented Lancelot? Or even that one with Keira Knightley as some kind of weird Celtic warrior version of Guinevere?Yeah, all of those were better than whatever the hell this was. The Guinevere Deception is an ‘alternative’ retelling of the Arthurian legend where our heroine Guinevere is a changeling witch who has been sent to Camelot by Merlin to protect King Arthur from an unknown threat. While reading it just felt like the author had picked out the bits of folklore and mythology she liked and altered them to suit her plot but without really expanding on them and making them truly her own stories. The writing is very basic, and character development and world building is poor. Nothing is explained properly, the magic system is haphazard and confusing and there seems to be no reasoning behind some of the plot decisions. With our main protagonist Guinevere, we first see her thrown into Arthur’s world on her way to be wed. We know nothing about her backstory, and even who she really is. Throughout the story we gain minuscule snippets of her time before Camelot, but conveniently her memories have been erased, making her history spotty at best, but mainly non existent. This makes her decision to marry Arthur on the word of Merlin alone feel very insincere, as we never see the two together until over 75% of the way through. Instead, Merlin is described as an almost omnipotent old man who knows everything, but never explains anything. His lack of communication to Guinevere was deeply irritating. All of these factors resulted in me really not caring about any of these characters. The secondary characters, including all of Arthur’s knights are woefully underused and underdeveloped, meaning we never see any of the camaraderie that Arthur is suppose to share with these men. Multiple times we’re told these guys love Arthur, but I never saw it. The ‘romance’ between Guinevere and Arthur also feels very quick and insincere. As was the other romantic entanglements, which I felt were used more for plot direction than anything else. It wasn’t believable at all. The plot itself is also boring and predictable. Nothing surprised me, because everything I already knew from Arthurian legend, and honestly not a lot even happens. We have Guinevere aimlessly wandering around Camelot on a wild goose chase for most of the story, with Arthur off fighting ‘border conflicts’. There’s no tension, no build up in action and any changes to the traditional stories felt either obvious or pointless. The ending was also incredibly underwhelming and rushed, with a cliffhanger that makes the whole book feel unnecessary. I’m so disappointed after reading this. Arthurian legends have so much potential to be amazing, but this really missed the mark with sloppy writing, boring characters and a non existent plot.