5 out of 10Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work) Short-Soundtrack:Gemma Hayes – Wicked GameFollowed by Ghosts – King, My QueenJulee Cruise – Summer Kisses Winter Tears  Genre: urban-fantasy, YAStuff: canonical faery in the real worldFail: urban-partWOW: mythologyPOV: 3rd-person, multiSetting: Hunstdale (fictional city in USA)Love-Geometry: strange, 'cause 95% of characters are polygamousQuote-Core:     "Maybe you should slow down, so I can catch you."   Wicked Lovely is a wicked book or rather a wicked series. Why? Seems like you love the story and hate it at the same time. Isn’t it wicked enough? I had changed my rating more than once, ‘cause I had no idea what kind of feelings toward the book won after all.Marr is a nice teller, I like her style, I adore the world-building (you may not see it in the first book, but I've already read 3 parts and 2 bonuses of this series and have seen more) and fae-mythology of Wicked Lovely (these faeries are super close to canon). And there is one more big plus: we have about 5 MCs (so far, there would be more) and each of them has his or her story, each of them is a person (though again you won’t see much in the first book), but more important is that Marr doesn’t promote any of her characters, she develops everyone without pressure, without favoring any of them. That’s why is so hard to get whom you like, whom you hate and about whom you don’t care at all. I knew only one thing: Seth sucks. He is Mal + Jeb + every annoying humanling from other series. I hate such a type of character, so I despised him at first sight.What I disliked is an urban part of the story. I mean… such a good fae-society! Such colorful Courts and they live in an average city? Why they chose this particular place? And why Keenan was looking for his queen only here? Winter Queen and Dark King were stupid enough and didn’t come up with an idea to choose a girl from the other part of the Earth? It would be so much difficult to find the very girl if she was living in China or Russia or New Zealand. And faeries have to live in their magical lands, IMO. They should have some passages into the real world, those are connected with every corner of it. I see no reason for all the Courts to live in Hunstdale. Yes, it's a fictional place but this is a part of the human realm. Why Winter Queen lives there, while she could move to the South Pole? Why Dark Fey didn't choose a huge city? More people, more emotions (they need them). Why the Summer Court is here? Why not on a tropical island? This is illogical.Let's go further. We have 4 courts.  SummerSummer faeries are frivolous and lightheaded; they love vine, dances, and sex. They would die without joy and pleasure. And without their future queen too. Keenan, their young king (he’s only 9 centuries old and others call him a boy, so…) is cursed and his powers are bound by his mother (the Winter Queen) and Irial (the Dark King). Beira - the Winter Queen - was romancing his father and eventually killed him, but she was already pregnant, that’s how was born a new Summer ruler. She was afraid of him to grow as strong as his father was and decided to prevent such a thing. Keenan had to search for his queen among mortals, pick them, change them into fae and then ask them to take his mother’s staff (this is a kind of a test) or become a Summer Girl. Choosing the first, they risk to become a Winter Girl and to lose Keenan (‘cause sex with burns and frost burns isn’t that good, you know), choosing the second means being addicted to their king presence and mood, without him they would wither and die, and when he’s unhappy, they are too. There is another risk, one of these Summer Girls could be the queen but she was afraid to test herself and now Keenan would be always cursed, winter would last forever, Summer Court would die and people would do the same. So Keenan tries his best to break the spell, to find his lady, and to care about summer faeries. He has two advisers: an old one and a young one (watch the last, he’ll become an MC later).  WinterWinter faeries are cold, cruel and impassioned. Beira rules them. Her main goal is not to let Keenan meet his queen, all she does is irritating him and visiting Donia, who was the last that risked her future and mortality for Keenan for nothing, now she contains winter cold in her body and soul plus has to talk every girl Keenan picks against taking the Winter’s staff, she has to convince them that Summer King is dangerous and he can’t be trusted. BTW, Donia still loves him and he still loves her (not amused, I am). Beira threats to kill her if she let the newest of Keenan’s girls to try herself with staff and stuff. But Donia understands that she has to risk her life again, ‘cause it would free Keenan and herself as well.  DarkThey are all about kinky things, sex, drugs and violence. They exist feeding on human’s emotions (not positive or pure once). We won’t see much of them in this book. Their king is Irial, he’s a gancanagh, a solitary Fae whose touches and kisses are lethal to mortals, they become addictive and without him they die. But since he is king, he can control this ability. He has a past with Niall, the youngest of Keenan’s advisers. And he is the one who helped Beira to bind Summer King’s power.   HighThis is a court of reason, order and balance. High Court is the one which exists not in the real world but in a magical one. Their queen is Sorcha, she takes mortals with Sight into her domain, where they create beautiful arts. She has a twin-sister Bananac, who is a Dark King's subject and a solitary Fae of War, and a brother Devlin, who is her adviser and assassin. While Sorcha is Order's incarnate and Bananac is Chaos, Devlin is both. We won’t see much of High Court and its rulers until Old Habits bonus and until book #3, but we’ll hear about them for sure. Now let me introduce you to our future Summer Queen Aislinn or simply Ash. She sees faeries since childhood and keeps it in secret. When a boy and a girl with a wolf start to stalking her, she panics and opens her problems to a new friend of hers — a womanizer Seth. Later we would learn that he has no STD (he would show us and Ash a certificate, yes, this is weird and still it would happen) and he hasn't slept with anyone since meeting Aislinn. Such a hero. She would love him muuuuch and would refuse Keenan. I won’t tell how it all ends, but you should know that Marr might surprise you (maybe not in a good way).Now tell me why do I still reading this series? I was spoiled on the ending (thanks to Wikia), I disagree with the final and still keeping on. I like how many different characters Marr created, I like how unusual and complicated ships are here, but this author tortures me with her story, I wanna one thing and she gives me another every freaking time, in every freaking book. How is that possible? I understand when you disagree with some twists, but with the whole story? Incredible...Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота):— Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота) #1/5— Ink Exchange (Роковая татуировка) #2/5— Stopping Time (Останавливая время) #2.5/5— Old Habits (Старые привычки) #2.6/5— Fragile Eternity (Темное предсказание) #3/5— Radiant Shadows (Смертные тени) #4/5— Darkest Mercy (Жестокое милосердие) #5/5— Faery Tales & Nightmares (Сказки и кошмары) — Desert Tales (Рассказы о пустыне)