I tripped and fell down a Tamora Pierce rabbit hole this weekend.Here's the thing: Aly was never a compelling character for me. The first book of this duology was weak because it felt purely like setup. This book was weak because everything was so easy. That said, I always liked the final confrontation and I still found it exciting on this reread.Here's what stood out to me this particular time around.1. Man, Aly's parents and godparents are stupid. Why would you teach a really bright young woman all the many ways she can manipulate people, lie, and disappear, and then allow her no way to make use of this talent? Nature abhors a vacuum! Of course she was going to take her talents somewhere they could be used, even if she got there - creatively! And now she's the spymaster for a rival country you aren't officially allied with, while knowing everything about the Tortallan spy system. And you all saunter in to visit like you're okay with that?(I seem to be of the Megan Whalen Turner "we can't have have a treaty without a marriage" school of thought. Marriage to Nawat doesn't count.)2. I liked the minor characters a lot more on this reread. I'd have liked more on Taybur Sibigat! Who is this guy? Why is he so loyal to his baby king? Why do he and Aly have so much more in common than Aly and Nawat? And Ochobu is great, especially when she points out the storm was caused by luarin magic - "That is to say, Crown magic, because any other mage with sense learns how we work. Why do you think Zaimid Hetnim came here? It wasn't to be called 'brown dog' behind his back by the regents." Often Ochobu simply feels like the mage they need instead of a character in her own right, but when she's pointing out key information that rounds out the worldbuilding, she feels much more vital. I like all her contributions about raka magic; I think they quietly demonstrate a lot of important information that descriptions of brute force don't convey as powerfully.3. I can't decide how I feel about Pierce's obvious slavery/race parallels. They're there, and sometimes they're interesting, and sometimes they're problematic, and overall I'm confused.4. I did really like the idea that the rebels were planning to crown the older, more charismatic, much less suitable sister while totally blind to how much better a candidate Dove was - even after Sarai absconded.5. Uh, I don't really like Aly. Or how easily things come to her, or how charming and successful she is. She fails ONCE, and even that ends up being for the best.6. Tamora Pierce is one of the only authors I know who's actually successful at creating a second generation of characters in the same world. And when I say that, I mean the Kel books. The Aly books feel like third generation, and I don't think they're as successful. All these insipid third generation characters spreading out and interacting (Jon and Thayet's daughter along with Sarai in Carthak, for example) don't matter to me. Jon and Raoul and Gary and Alanna, and Kel and Neal and Merric and Seaver and Co., feel so much more alive and important. When the best moments of the Trickster books are the ones where I got to see Jon interact with Alanna, and Kel duel with Alanna - well, the series starts to feel even weaker.