When I read the blurb, I knew straightaway I needed to read the book. One of my favourite books ever -Master and Margarita by Mikhail Bulgakov- has a famous line: Manuscripts don't burn. The premise of this first book in a new fantasy series echoed Bulgakov's words- somewhere, in a place not governed by earthly laws of logic or order, there exists a library of stories that might or might not find their way into existence..Claire Hadley is Head Librarian of the Unwritten Wing (there is also another wing called Arcane with its own head supervisor, but more about it later). She has been doing her job for three decades ever since her predecessor disappeared into nowhere. On surface, Claire appears to be quite stern, even ruthless. In order to make a restless book character return to its unwritten story, she sometimes has to damage it with surgical precision and zero hesitation. When a nervous teenage demon Leto appears in the library with an order to track an escaped hero who has already made his way to the Earth, Claire knows she has no time to waste. Leto and Claire are given day passes, while Brevity (isn't it a fantastic name for a story like this?), Claire's assistant, can leave and come back to the Library in a much more flexible manner. They succeed in tracking the fugitive, who they decide to call simply Hero, but on their way back things get complicated. A fallen angel Ramiel, who has been granted a possibility to enter the Heaven Gates again if he tracks a dark and dangerous artefact, confronts and accuses them of being in the posessession of the object he is searching for. Although Claire and Leto escape, on their return to the Library Claire launches her own investigation and realises she must retrieve the book, otherwise the world of Mortals might be destroyed in the war between Heaven and Hell. To do that she must enlist the help of the Head of the Arcane Wing, her former mentor.Apart from a very original premise and gripping plot, the book has a great character cast. Claire Hadley, the Librarian, is very humane and willing (and able) to see the best in everybody she meets. In this world, souls judge themselves, so you will wonder why she ended up punishing herself by deciding she needed to pay for her sins by becoming a librarian in Hell ( tenant, not servant- the Library is located in Hell, but is not a part of it). You've got to admire the wit of the author who gave her apprentice such a wonderful name - Brevity. Brevity is a former muse and is charming beyond description. There's a lot more to Hero than just a pretty face and bravado. Leto...you have to earn his trust- will Claire succeed in proving herself to this half-demon/lhalf-sulky teenager?There are twists and turns, traps and betrayals to watch out for. I loved the characters' brief soujourn in Valhalla and Claire's brilliant duel with the local bard, but there are other realms that get explored in this imaginative book. This is an adventure story and a quest, so it will be appreciated by fans of fantasy and paranormal fiction. The twist at the end promises an interesting sequel, where I hope we'll find out more secrets from Claire's past as well as more about the Library itself.Thank you to Edelweiss and Ace (Penguin Publishing Group) for the ARC provided in exchange for an honest opinion.