Argh, I'm sorry I can't have loved this more. I think partly it was a misunderstanding of what this book was and partly my own personal sensibilities. I can see, if I had read this before I understood that withstanding abuse is not love, that I might have found it the exciting, passionate and violent story it wanted to be. But I did not read it then, and it's not so cute now.CONTENT WARNING: (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics)  infidelity, sadism, serial killers, domestic violence, casual misogyny, tropes that are demeaning to gay people. Things to love:-Gothic romance with men. Sword fights and plots and jewels and trysts! And the lovers are two men. I would imagine when this first came out, that was a draw, to see this representation of two men unabashedly in love.-The audio production. It was fun having all the background noise throughout the book, more like a radio play than just a book narration.Things I did not love:-The plot. I had a hard time buying it. Honor killing without recourse, someone who brings the money Richard could make but unable to read or figure out who's who "on the hill," a strange daisy chain of backstabbery...it did not grab me and I spent most of the time bored or wondering why someone had acted the way they did.-The romance. Holy crap these guys are torqued. At first I didn't realize they were a couple because Alec was so incredibly awful to Richard I thought they must have some other connection. But by the end I'd figured out that Richard was a serial killer with a code and Alec was a sadist and they fed each other's sicknesses. Um...I mean that's fine and all, and I guess it's nice that Kushner didn't really revel in the sickness like some authors do, but I felt like I was supposed to find it sweet when instead I was waiting for the Bonnie and Clyde moment. Real spoiler here  And there was no resolution to it! After Richard had killed like, what, 5 or 6 people for Alec, he shrugged and fell asleep instead of asking Alec to explain wtf just happened, and then Alec walks in with fish and I guess that's a happy ending/beginning of a great career of murder-fueled dom/sub relationship? I'm confused. Is there erotica you're supposed to buy separately or something? -It's not "Jane Austen with swords." Nope. Not even close. This is a gothic novel--filled with debauchery and titillation and evil dukes and whatall. I was expecting Austen and got Bronte which required a displeasing flip of my expectations. It's also not written with period grammar or sensibilities or word choice, so I guess this is some sort of offworld 1980s reenactment of the Enlightenment Era?I have more questions than I have resolution and no real desire to answer them, so I guess there were some exciting parts, but I don't think this has aged as well as I might have liked.