Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.A book that sticks the landing in such a perfect way, and ends up being the best of any of the 16 books in the series. This book and series should go down as one of the greatest fantasy series of all timeAs I was reading this book, I went through a wide range of feelings about how this book would hold up both on it's own, and as a fitting ending to such a magnificent series. Around 30% in, I worried that while good, this book was not great - and was going to fumble the ball on the goal-line. But as the book crossed the 50% line I realized that in true Robin Hobb fashion, the slow build was done with purpose, and what I received was the most riveting, emotion-filled, tense, and perfect book that was written in this universe. Not only did the book manage to end things in a truly wonderful way, but it has made me rethink the entire series as a whole. There have been books in this series that felt underwhelming to me and borderline unnecessary - particularly Assassin's Quest and most of the Rain Wild Chronicles books. But upon finishing this book I now realize their importance in this world and it made them absolutely important stories to be told in order to appreciate the grander story. Hobb clearly had things planned out perfectly, and while she is the dictionary definition of a slow burn, it was done with perfect purpose, and I will forever cherish the experience she has allowed me to participate in.Story: 5/5Without spoiling anything, the story here is spellbinding. Events have been leading in this direction slowly for an extremely long time, so to see all this buildup finally lead to an epic conclusion was a joy to behold. All storylines that had felt like dead-ends were weaved in perfectly here, and there was a fitting ending to literally all of the character arcs. I absolutely love the scope of this story, which was more wide ranging than anything in the past by a long shot. All of the key locations from the previous books were integrated into this story, and meeting up with past characters who got mixed up in this story brought a constant smile to my face. While virtually everyone who reads this book can likely guess the eventual fate of some of these characters, it did not make the story any less impactful for that - and the form that this fate takes is likely different than most would guess (at least it was for me).World Building: 5/5The world building here was absolutely wonderful, and the addition of one specific location (that will remain unnamed for spoiler purposes) was something I have long wanted to read about. It was done incredibly, with such vivid descriptions and added in wonderful new characters. The wait to read about this location was worthwhile, and it really made the entire world finally come together in a cohesive fashion with the right mix of explanation and mystery. I have criticized Hobb's worldbuilding in the past as one of the weaker aspects of her books, but I was wrong. I just didn't understand the whole story yet - and it makes me want to go back and read these books again due to the new appreciation I have for the story at large.Fantasy Elements: 5/5This was another aspect to this series I have criticized in the past, and while I still maintain that these fantasy elements were a bit lackluster in previous books, the addition of new magic into this book was the best to date, and weaved into the previous magic systems in a glorious way. It felt fresh, interesting, and fun consistently throughout this book - without feeling overpowered or cheap. The implementation of dragons, and our understanding of the history and capabilities of the dragons continued to expand in this book in an extremely unexpected way, and I am so glad that Hobb didn't lay out all her cards at the beginning and held some mystery for the very end. Characters: 5/5The characters in this book, and this series as a whole, are without a doubt the greatest characters ever written in the history of fantasy. The journey that you get to take with Fitz, following him from a little boy into a grown man - and the cast of characters that surrounds him, is remarkably perfect. The range of emotions that these characters go through feels so incredibly real, and I struggle to imagine how anyone will ever top what Robin Hobb has achieved here. There isn't a single character in this entire series that has been a disappointment - and this includes the cast of new characters that were included in this book.Writing Style: 5/5Robin Hobb is a marvelous writer, and her ability to make you sympathize with literally every single character in this book makes this an instant masterpiece. Everything is written in such amazingly vivid detail, and even when things aren't tense (which most things aren't in this book) it is gripping and extremely difficult to put down.Her prose is incredible, and just oozes with skill that you just wish more authors could replicate.Enjoyment: 5/5Very few, if any books have I enjoyed more than this one. It's the perfect sendoff to this series, to these characters, and likely (but hopefully not) this author.