4.5*I am done, now feeling sad and empty. I still remember my frustrated self after finishing Assassin’s Quest back in January 2016, and how promised myself not to torture myself and read another book in Realm of the Elderlings. But constant praise on my home feed and friends’ rave of the series were tempting but I was not courageous enough to dive into RotE world again. Then last year I finally gave in and started reading Tawny Man and I was shocked to see how much Fitz has matured or perhaps it was me who became more mature and patient. He was still irritating at times but not like the teenager Fitz where all he did was whine. He was the assassin that King Shrewd wanted him to be and his relationship with Fool developed further making the trilogy "golden". After that I read one of the best fantasy trilogy, Livship Traders. It was bewitching! The world, the characters and how they grew on me, it was fantastic to experience all those emotional conflicts. But as they say all good things comes to an end, after the high of Tawny Man and Livship Traders came Rain Wild Chronicles and I should have avoided them. Hard to believe that Ms. Hobb wrote those books. Somehow plodded on because at the end final trilogy of RotE was waiting for me. The end was so near, hence I put the disappointment of Rain Wild behind me and kept on reading. My above rambling about how felt for RotE books was necessary here because it's been over three months when I wrapped up this book and I am still unable to get over how Hobb brought everything to a closure. It was sublime, poignant and heart-breaking. Hope she won’t add more books to this because this was perfect for me. Of course I will read if she decides to continue the story (she could construct a solid story trilogy the way she ended things here) but this is it for me. She gave Fitz’s story a conclusion worthy of all the pain and happiness that I experienced through him.I have nothing to say about Assassin’s Fate because whatever I write here will be a spoiler. Skill, wit, talking ships, and dragons, all came in this story to make it magical and ending things in a grand way. I am going to miss this world, perhaps will return to it too at sometime. Highest possible recommendation.