I've had my eye on this gorgeous book for a very long time. After recently reading through some glowing reviews from friends, I decided not to put it off any longer. Proving that sometimes I do make good choices. It's rare, but it happens.One of my favorite aspects of this ended up being the striking atmosphere. It was such a good fit as we transition from a spooky October into a still spooky, yet more cozy November...Set in the 19th-century port town of Malacca, in colonial Malaya, this story follows 17-year old, Li Lan, who lives with her father and loving nursemaid, Amah.Li Lan's family was once well-off, but due to her father's persistent opium addiction, they now find themselves virtually bankrupt. Li Lan is at the point in her life when most young women her age are getting married. Due to their status, however, Li Lan finds herself without many prospects.When her father first presents her with the idea of becoming a ghost bride for the wealthy Lim family, he says it lightly, sort of in passing; like he wasn't really considering it.The local practice of ghost brides are said to calm restless spirits of those who have passed on. The Lim's son, Lim Tian Ching, has recently died under mysterious circumstances and his mother seems set on finding him a ghost bride.Even though Li Lan would be set for life, having a lavish place to live, never wanting for anything, she's not into it. Tying herself to a dead man for the duration of her life, no thank you. She wants more, maybe even love.When she gets invited to the Lim home for a visit however, she does accept. There's no reason to be rude. Plus, she's genuinely curious about the family.It is a very interesting visit. She's mesmerized by their lifestyle and the characters fluttering around their lush estate. After the visit, the haunting of Li Lan begins. In her dreams, Li Lan is visited by the dead Lim Tian Ching, whose spirit makes her incredibly uncomfortable for a host of different reasons. The nightly interactions begin to wear heavily upon her.She even goes as far as visiting a medium to try to find a way to free herself of his spirit. In short, she's given a potion of sorts to try to help and after taking too much, Li Lan slips into a coma.Y'all, I am really simplifying this here, but you get the gist. Through her condition, Li Lan is transported to the parallel world of the Chinese afterlife, where vengeful spirits, ghost cities and monstrous establishments abound. There she meets Er Lang, a sort of spiritual guide, and they help her upon her journey. The more ensnared Li Lan becomes in this world, the greater the risk becomes that she will never be able to return to the mortal realm. It's a race against the clock.I adored the menacing, magical tone of this. I loved the infusion of Chinese folklore. It's so interesting to read about and learn about. I have read a couple of other novels tackling similar concepts and always end up really enjoying the imagery of the dark underworld.I did end up listening to the audiobook and I would absolutely recommend that format. It is actually narrated by the author and is completely mesmerizing.I love when an author narrates their own story. If done right, it can just breath such energy and authenticity into it. Only they know exactly how their words should be read and wow, Yangsze Choo could be the best I've ever heard!!!I know I am probably forgetting a million things that I wanted to say about this one. The goodness of it all has just zapped thoughts straight out of my brain.Overall, I found this story to be beautifully-lyrical, fantastical and compelling. I'm so glad that I finally made time for it. I am definitely planning to read more from Yangsze Choo; looking forward to it. I'm a fan!