December 2022⭐️4.5Why have I read this 3 times in 1 year???Hear me out, this book takes 100 pages to get into. It lacks world building, atmosphere and a magic foundation. But I care NOT. I think the characters and their interactions are fantastic. The physical reading experience is far more enjoyable than the audio in my opinion. Mainly because the narrators come across far younger and more immature than the dialogue actually depicts the characters. Now that's not to say that this reads as adult. It doesn't. I know that's how it's marketed and most of the cast are meant to be late 20's and early 30's. In what universe? They read early to mid 20's at most. But, again, I loved it.I see every flaw of this book. I had a live show discussing this and there were plenty of very rational flaws bought up about this book. I agree with all of them. But, somehow, I still loved it.I'm a character girly. And the more I read and reread this book, the most invested I got in the characters and forgiving of their flaws. So, maybe I liked it so much because of how far I went down the rabbit hole. But I will be continuing with the series and pre-ordering the 3rd book.November 2022⭐️4.5I'm not even shitting you when I say I'm about to reread this book AGAIN to further annotate and dissect.I really enjoy these characters and I'm not ready to leave their world.March 2022⭐4.5The hype is real. I loved it.I had a similar reading experience with Six of Crows. With the first read, I'm testing the waters to see how interested I'm going to be and if there's a possibility for characters to connect with me on a deeper level. I felt that with this book. Now, I need to reread it to really dive into it and enjoy myself.The two things I need in a 4 or 5 star book is intriguing plot and interesting characters. This was serving both. There definitely are several things I didn't understand at all. Like the mermaid and the guy in Nico's head. Like. huh? But that's what my second read through will help with.