Thank you, brian tanabe!Have you ever slapped someone, good and hard? I can still remember the one and only time I did, the anger boiling up and over, the near involuntary windup of the arm and spring-loaded swing-through, the crack of the hand on the offender's cheek, the numb and then sting in the palm, the blipping rush of incredible satisfaction instantaneously followed by a gushing of fear and guilt? Yeah. It felt good and solid before the last fear and guilt part. I still remember all that from when I slapped the little brat (who was bigger than me) in preschool, when I was four. This book brought it all back, because I wanted to slap every one of the characters. Idiots! All of them!I think this is a YA novel, in particular because of the large and well-spaced font which seems to be characteristic of books for youths. Is this a false impression? It's like how crayons/text get slimmer/smaller as you get older and then graduate to colored pencils.Presented as being inspired by Jane Austen, I think this book leans more heavily on her than that. The main character is named Jane, fcol (= for crying out loud, is that an acceptable abbr. yet? I'm not up on txtmsg speak), and she's a mush of all of Austen's main ladies (that I can recall, and my recollection is mostly from movies). The sister character is a mush of all the other sisters, the mother and father, the dashing but shady gentleman, the stiffly honorable gentleman with a sister, the misunderstood but in the end very appropriate gentleman, the noble neighboring lady and her nearly silent daughter, all mushed together from all of Austen's works. The situation and plotline are also cribbed but with the detail and minutiae stripped away, all the density of Austen's works gone. It's Austen lite.Little magics are part of daily household life. It's not well-explained, but it looks like magic is meant to be for peasants, artists, and women in this world? Some men are described as working with their abilities to keep things cold...and actually, I think that's it. Well-bred gentlemen didn't seem to take part in it. But women and artists create beauty out of it, and a lady should be able to create illusions for the home just as she should be able to make conversation and play the piano forte.The main character is such a damn pushover, gaaahhhhhh!!! Too accommodating, too polite, too rug-like. There were so many moments where the whole mess could've been cleared up with a few short sentences...gahhhh! The character, Jane, has magical talent but it wasn't a story where her abilities make her a heroine. She gets her happy ending, although the author seems to have gotten tired at the end and wraps the story up too swiftly after the big climactic confrontation, with a surpisingly curt last page. And she did that thing like in The Princess Bride (I automatically typed Bridge in there, again), where a potentially satisfying scene is skipped over like this: "Though he denied a skill at words, everything Mr. [spoiler] said in that tender moment brought Jane unbearable joy." Nooooo! Why can't you tell us what was said? I think I loved Juliet Marillier when I was younger because she didn't cut away from these moments with cop-out summaries of how wonderful it was, too wonderful to write here. Boo! There are moments when the overblown is appropriate, when you say "forever" and "always" and mean it. Isn't this the kind of book where you'd want to include that sort of speech?This is more negative than I mean to be. It's a very pretty story and a quick, pleasant read. Maybe I'm cranky because I stayed up to finish it.