If you haven't read this series at all, here's my three liner pitch:↣ dark and thought provoking but wholesome epic high fantasy that centers around themes of power, ruling, leadership, and nuanced conversations on the disparities between men and women in a society. Filled to the brim with characters that are entertaining, never let the intrigue die and you constantly want to cheer for. A plot that runs forward without looking back but holds your hand when it comes to world-building so that you don't get lost in the vastness of it. ↢
“Words are where most change begins.”
I don't want to hype this up even more than everyone is but it truly is turning into one of my favorite series of all time.I will forever love Sanderson's characterizations. There is so much thought and meaning put into every character and their role in both the plot progression and its nuance while leaving you with fulfillment at every interaction. As I said before, Brandon Sanderson builds his worlds in a way that makes you care for each character first before fully explaining the world that he has plopped you in the middle of.I think that at the end of the day, the most successful aspect this series depicts is what it means to be, not a hero, but a leader (and basically a human being)and that we are all just acting based on our own perceived notions of what is right. Specifically, in a society or a culture that is so set in its ways but has also forgotten its roots. Sometimes I truly run out of things to say when I love a book, it’s world-building, characters and their dynamics, and the magic system too much. 
“I will protect even those I hate, so long as it is right.”
This really is only the second book in the series but it already proves to host a very dynamic plot that just keeps growing in scale, Sanderson style. I don’t think it’s mentioned as often in reviews but the depiction of depression, anxiety and PTSD were aspects that I did not expect to be as focused on but I realized are all very realistic parts of war that it should be something that is tackled in a healthy way. Sanderson is a master at slow burn world-building that still manages to be so satisfying at every step (Journey before destination, my friends) while making you fall in love with characters without even realizing it. I love how all of the women are portrayed as strong characters that can hold their own. Even the little romances are treated in a fulfilling way even though they are just side stories. At this point, its not difficult to feel a connection to all of the characters. Forgive me for not saying any character names because I believe even mentioning them is a spoiler at this point HAHA
“A woman's strength should not be in her role, whatever she chooses to be, but in the power to choose that role.”
There are so many more things I could say but I also think that you should just read this book. There is something about the pacing and how the plotline was crafted that made this book already feel so rewarding when we're really just at the tip of the iceberg. The way everything was tied in with the first book... UGH. YES. Satisfying stuff.Highly, highly, recommended if you like fantasy in any way, shape, or form. Especially if you like high fantasy that feels like you're in so deep in the world-building and characters, and brings with it development and progression that is satisfying in every chapter. 
“Honor is dead. But I'll see what I can do.”
— 5.0 —⇢ content warnings// depression, gore, suicide ideation, violence, war⇢ representation: depression, anxiety, PTSD