"...“As I fear not a child with a weapon he cannot lift, I will never fear the mind of a man who does not think.”..."
OMG!!! This was not just a book, it was a 4 day vacation to the world of Roshar, the complete package! It came with exotic locations, historical sites, a taste of the lives of all social classes including their cuisines and family traditions 
("You're in my home now!" she said, and Lopen mouthed along with the words. "In a Herdazian woman's home, nobody's station means nothing beside her own. I'm not going to have them come and get you and find you not properly fed! I'll not have people saying that, Your Brightship, no I won't! Eat up. I've got soup cooking.")
, a ton of rainy Stormy days, and specific for the area fauna and flora. We did get a steady diet of the local political intrigues and barely survived in the civil wars and border disputes, but what is a vacation in a distant land, world-hopping with Hoit, without some bloodshed, am I right?:) 
"...“Onward, then! To glory and some such nonsense.” ..."
I am not going to pretend I have any idea where to start with a review of a work of this scope and caliber. Similar to how I felt about all the works in Jordan's "Wheel of Time", the only thing I really feel like doing is put my great caps on the key-board and gush of how much I loved everything about it. However, I am trying to be an adult here and write something that makes sense, so I am going to try to stomp my enthusiasm and adult a bit... 
"...“Expectation. That is the true soul of art. If you can give a man more than he expects, then he will laud you his entire life. If you can create an air of anticipation and feed it properly, you will succeed.” ..."
Despite the rather obvious attempt of the author to tell us about expectations of an artist and how and when one can live up to them, I think Brandon Sanderson has done a darn good job at keeping the promise he made to us with the first volume of the series. He promised us something Epic, something full of characters we can root for and root against, and he promised us a battle between Good and Evil which will be contentious, multi-leveled, and just as murky and conflicting for those who find themselves in the middle of it as it is in Real Life. He promised us to laugh and to cry, moments of pure and languid wonder, as well as the breathless inability to put the book down and forgo with sleep and favorite other activities just so we could find out what happens next. It promised us a game of clues, little crumbs of information thrown in across the books of the hole Cosmere Universe, which raise the steaks of survival not only to the faith of a People, a Kingdom, a World, but of the complex relationships and causalities which affect all the Worlds in the Whole Cosmere Universe!!! And he made us promise of romance, and growth, and happiness, and pain... I am here to day definitively, Mr. Sanderson DELIVERED!!! And just like Amazon, he delivered PRIME!!! 
"...“He fought as he wished he had all those years ago, for the chance he had missed. In that moment between storms--when the rain stilled and the winds drew in their breaths to blow--he danced with the slayer of kings, and somehow held his own.”..."
The Way of Kings was all about our dark-eyed, doctor-in-training, slave-freeing, Stormlight-consuming warrior, Kaladin. We got his background story, we got the path of how he got to where he is, and we got to love the gang of Bridge Four. Yes, we had multiple POV's, as we do here, but the majority was concerned with how Kaladin became Kaladin. In this volume, the person whom we get to know from the outside in and vise versa is Shallan. We all had a pretty good idea that things were not as they seemed with this smart-mouth young noble, who somehow manages to get in trouble all the time and insults people regardless of station or length of acquaintance. 
"...“Are you that afraid of being wrong? One would assume you’d be accustomed to it by now.”He grunted. “Be careful, girl. You wouldn’t want to accidentally insult a man.”“The last thing I’d want to do is accidentally insult you, Vathah,” Shallan said. “To think that Icouldn’t manage it on purpose if I wanted!”..."
I really, really don't want to get into the details of the plot, less I give something away and spoil it for people. However, I would want to encourage all my reading friends, be it fans of the Fantasy Genre or not, to read this series. It is sweet, but not syrupy so, it has romance, but just hints at it, it is violent, but only as befitting the true purpose of the plot, no gratuitous violence at all, it has politics and war, but they do not prevail the content and there is enough balance in order to make it interesting for all, it is witty, and yes, sometimes that felt just a little forced, but it was a good counterpoint to the sadness that many of the realities of this World bring about. What I am trying to say is that this is not a perfect book, despite the rating I give it. It has its weaknesses and there are plenty of things I would have wanted more or less of, but as a whole, this is a worthy investment of time and money. I think we are experiencing modern classic in the making and none of us should be left ignorant of it:) The bad news - I believe there are 10 books planned in the series and this is only the second. The good news - the third book is coming out in couple of weeks and you will not have to wait for it!!!! I know I can't....:) 
"...“I empathize with your skepticism, but I don’t agree with it. I just think you've been looking for God in the wrong places.”“I suppose that you’re going to tell me where you think I should look.”“You’ll find God in the same place you’re going to find salvation from this mess,” Wit said. “Inside the hearts of men.”“Curiously,” ..... said, “I believe I can actually agree with that, though I suspect for different reasons than you imply.”..."
[image error]Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!