“I am blood. I am death, I am vengeance.”I loved this book so much! This was a fantastic and action-packed fantasy about vengeance, war, grief, loyalty and love. The Shadow of the Gods occurs hundreds of years after the war of gods and follows Orka, a huntress on a journey to avenge her family, Elvar, a noblewoman who wants to be remembered as a great warrior and Varg, a slave who wants to redeem himself as a member of the Bloodsworn, a legion of warriors. During their journey, each of the characters make friends and enemies and find themselves changed forever. "I am born for the battle-storm and shield wall. I will make my own reputation, not be wed into someone else's."ThoughtsI was completely transported into this epic and brilliant world that the author created from the very first page. The plot was so interesting and exciting! I loved the Norse mythology weaved into this story, it was unique and unlike anything I have read before. The world building was amazing, I loved learning about this Norse inspired world of trolls, gods, dragons, warriors, and monsters. CharactersThe characters were so complex, interesting and unique. I loved Orka so much, she is awesome, strong, resilient, tenacious, brave, loyal, and will do anything to protect the people she loves. I also love Elvar, she is bold, strong, stubborn, fierce, and loyal. I love Varg, he is strong, brave, loyal, kind, and powerful. I also really loved the side characters, especially Rokia, Edel, Vol, Thorkel, and Glomir. The character development was excellent, I loved seeing different sides to all the characters, especially Varg, Orka and Elvar. Each of the main characters learned another part of themselves and realized how strong and capable they are. I loved that the author portrayal the women in this story as strong, powerful and capable. The women characters were all so amazing and strong!WritingThe author's writing is excellent and so descriptive, I felt like I was with the characters experiencing the same events and emotions that they experienced. I felt like I was watching a movie in my mind, I could almost hear and smell everything that was happening The storytelling was also amazing, the author completely engaged me from the beginning till the end and left me wanting more. The ending was so exciting and shocking! I can't wait to read the next book!I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy, amazing world building, awesome characters and excellent storytelling.