“Death is our constant companion, a whisper in our ear, but when you see a friend fall…nothing prepares us for it, even though we’ve waded through a river of the dead.”The Shadow of the Gods is set in Vigrid, a Norse-inspired world, and is the first book in the Bloodsword Saga. Let me first start by saying that I am from a small Nordic country called the Faroe Islands, and I know how to speak Faroese, Danish, and I can read Swedish and Norwegian. Furthermore, I have grown up hearing about Nordic creatures such as the Nix, the Seal Women and Huldufólk. So did this book feel Norse inspired? Absolutely!The Shadow of the Gods is filled with Norse terminology, myths and creatures. I love seeing names used, such as Sigrun, Agnar and Einar, commonly used in the Faroe Islands. It was a joy to be able to read and understand the Nordic (Icelandic, I think?) used in this book. If you are looking for a Norse-inspired fantasy, then The Shadow of the Gods is the perfect book for you. My only concern is the lack of a glossary. I hope that a glossary is added in the final print so that readers can look up the meaning of the terms used.John Gwynne is one of the best contemporary fantasy authors when writing a story with multiple POVs. We follow three distinct storylines, and Gwynne masterfully switches between the POVs. The pacing is terrific, and tension and stakes are gradually raised throughout this story, making the reader engaged in each plotline. This book is going to break your heart, so bring tissues!Orka, Elvar and Varg are well fleshed out, with depth and complex motivations, which make these characters incredibly memorable. I love Orka! It is rare to see a compassionate and badass mother in fantasy. Orka is fierce, loyal and protecting and has the potential to become one of my all-time favourite characters.Furthermore, the world-building is phenomenal. Gwynne expertly uses Norse inspiration in his world-building, making Vigrid feel vast and fascinating. The world of Vigrid is filled with harsh terrain, mythical creatures, forbidden magic and gods. My only “criticism” is that Elvar’s storyline starts at a slow pace. However, since you are following multiple POVs, the story never feels dull, and Elvar’s plotline picks up at the 50% mark. In conclusion, The Shadow of the Gods is a fantastic introduction to the Bloodsworn Saga, filled with memorable characters, phenomenal world-building and heartache. This book is perfect for readers that love Norse inspiration and epic fantasy. I am already anxiously waiting for the sequel!4.5 / 5 starsThanks to Orbit Books and NetGalley for an e-arc in exchange for an honest review.