Everyone: Fear the deadly trials! They are mercilles and might very well be the end of you!The Tsar: Whose birthday surprise I fancy more shall win… The plot: Scary birthday surprise gift competition ensues. The end.- A short summary******************This was nice and all but... Where were the actual deadly trials?? It seems that no one really cared about them. Not even the tsar who was suposed to initiate them...I enjoyed the magic and setting. The writing and switch of the POVs was nice as well (though there were some senseless metaphores included). I did like the characters somewhat, but didn't feel connected to them. As well as I felt disconnected from the romance. It was too much to fast and also love square-y (which was completely unecessary). “Her lungs faltered. Even the mere memory of his magic was so strong. And touching Nikolai, even through her gloves and his sleeve, was like being pummeled by a stampede of wild horses. No, wild unicorns. Beautiful, wild unicorns.”WHATSO IT WAS PAINFUL??The characters were ok, if one dimensional and some of them (Pasha and the whole of non magical citizens) tad dense. The only who had some kind of common sense was Pasha's sister, Yuliana. And she was somewhat antagonized through the female MC's POV by the end. I would've liked this book way more if there was less romance and more viciousness and dueling. Higher stakes. While, in the end, the plot focused more on the romance than the competition itself. But I think it's more of a problem of false advertising than anything else. Both the beginning of the book and many reviews (and probably the publishers as well) promised deadly competition and, eh, that was... anticlimatic. Thankfully I wasn't expecting it from this book after neing previously warned about the direction of the book, but I get why many people would be dissapointed because of it. Sometimes the advertising that is supposed to help and promote book could more likely hurt the it than anything else. Becasue while the 'duels' were's very much exciting, I still kinda liked them for what they were - creative. Overall: creative, beautiful magic and setting, very romance center (beware the love square), engaging writing but decidedly not dark enough (this is no Hunger Games people). Porbably for fans of Shadow and Bone, though not as good.