Real rating:  3.5 Buddy read with Red King What i liked - I really enjoyed the plot. Like I said in one of my updates, it reminded me so much of the night circus. We have two people who have been trained since they were little to become the king’s enchanter. With two enchanters, there has to be a game to determine who would become the winner. They have to play until one of them dies. To win, they have to either impress the King with their abilities or kill the other enchanter. I enjoyed the competition which wasn’t a battle but more artistic. I enjoyed reading about what the two enchanters made as they were all beautiful things. - This book has multiple POVs which can be good or bad but I liked it in this. Especially since it was kinda evenly distributed instead of it being mostly in one person’s POV. Also, the chapters are really short (71 chapters) so if you don’t like one person, you don’t have to deal with their POV for a long time.- There was a plot twist I didn’t see coming which was impressive because in YA books, it’s easy to guess plot twists especially in the first book of a series.  What i didn’t like . - I really did not like the romance at all. In my opinion, I feel people use the term ‘instalove’ loosely. Crushes on people you just met happens a lot in real life so I don’t mind when it happens in books. But in this, there was instalove. It was even acknowledged in the book. Actually, there were two sets of instalove. How do you still feel ‘connected’ to someone and have dreams of you kissing them when they tried killing you? The love just seemed unrealistic to me. Honestly, I didn’t mind it until the second half of the book where romance seemed to be the main focus. Plus that love triangle wasn’t necessary - I guess the end was supposed to be beautiful but I just found it anticlimactic. Overall, this was an interesting read and I was never bored, but I don’t think I would read the next book because I don’t care to continue lol. It should have been a standalone tbh.