Привет, друзья! I am here to tell you that you are not prepared for the majesty that is The Crown's Game. You need to know that when you look at that cover, you are looking at a FIVE STAR book. There is magic, romance, a complex plot, drool-worthy guys, and Russian prestige. I. LOVE. IT. It's definitely one of the BEST books I've ever read, and I mean—we're talking Leigh Bardugo levels here, people!I'm always nervous when I read a book that is set in Russia because often times, the language is incorrect or something isn't depicted properly. However as your Russian representative and a member of the Tsar's Guard, I can assure you that Evelyn Skye has executed the Russian culture, language, and mentality to a T.If you get a manuscript or an ARC, please be advised that Evelyn has added on the "a" at the end of the last names of the female characters in the book, but the change was made after the ARCs were already printed.A note about Russian last names:The endings of surnames are a key not only to a person's nationality but also to their gender. Most Russian surnames change their ending in the feminine: usually the letter "-a" is added at the end (Ivanova, Sorokina), or "-sky" changes into "-skaya (Moskovskaya). However, last names ending in "-ich" and "-ko" are gender-neutral, with the female version not changing its form even when the name is declined (names ending in "-ko", which are particularly common in Ukraine, remain unchanged in all cases, irrespective of whether the person is male or female). Source.Now that our Russian grammar lesson is done for the day, let me get back to telling you how much I love this book. The Crown's Game was everything I wanted it to be and more. The entire time I was reading, I was flipping out over every page—and we're talking actual shrieking, and jumping up and down. Guys, the book love was intense.The Crown's Game beyond exceeded all of my expectations. Everything from the plot, the writing, the characters, and the magic—oh my god, the magic! I am in LOVE.I was a flailing mess the entire time while reading this book. Not just because it made me swell with Russian pride, but also because it just kept wowing me.The plot is incredibly intricate with really well-developed characters. You get each character's backstory without feeling overwhelmed. Plus, all of them are so lovable that I got incredibly attached to all of them—even the "bad guys." I can confidently say that The Crown's Game is one of my favorite books of ALL TIME and all of you need to read it!Read my full review of the Uncorrected Manuscript HERE.