There are things more dangerous than a little magicThis book was amazing! I wish it didn't have to end. Fans of The Night Circus, this is what we were looking for! Vika Andreyeva and Nikolai Karimov are two enchanters who were chosen by tsar to participate in the Crown’s Game. I should note that it`s a very rare case when two enchanters are born at the same time. Both enchanters don`t know about each other, until it`s time to fight in the Game. They also don't know much about the competition, except for one - they have to demonstrate their abilities and prove who is worthy to serve the king. The loser will face death, because two enchanters cannot exist together.The Imperial Enchanter will need all of Russia’s magic, especially since Bolshebnoie Duplo is no longer as potent as it was when the people of our country still adhered to the old ways. The Imperial Enchanter must be the only major conduit of what magic remains. There cannot be any dilutionAnd now Russia is being threatened by the Ottoman Empire. The King will need all his forces in the looming war. It's time to choose the Imperial Enchanter. But no matter how zealously Vika and Nikolai were preparing for competition, they did not expect that they will penetrate with forbidden feelings for each other. However, their lives are at stake, which means that their relationships are not going to happen.Vika packed the clay from the former pitcher in her hands. It hardened into a ceramic cannonball. “I don’t fancy dying.”Her father emptied the bottle of kvass. “Then the only option is, you cannot.”I also should say that the prose was great. The author managed to show Russia in all its glory. After reading this book you will want to see firsthand all of the places visited by the protagonists of the novel. Ornate descriptions of the surroundings were skillfully diluted by exciting dialogues that won`t leave anyone indifferent. The story isn`t fast-paced, but it`s by no means boring.“I’d like to be a menace to anyone who dares to trouble Russia.”“You already are a menace.”Vika pecked Sergei on the cheek. “Then make me a bigger one.”If you are expecting ferocious magical battles for the right to become the winner of the Crown's Game, then forget about it. No, as it was in The Night Circus, the main task of enchanters is not to kill each other, but to show their capabilities by working for the good of the country. Each of them is given five attempts to show themselves and to surprise the King. St. Petersburg is their battleground. However, at first enchanters didn`t abandon their attempts to kill each other and to end the Game earlier than it was planned to. With each move their creations impress more and more, but their affection for each other grows too. Nevertheless, both have their own reasons for needing to win.And he could not give that up, because studying with her was his ticket to becoming more than a no-name orphan. He could be Imperial Enchanter someday.The romance came to my liking. It wasn`t love at first sight. The enchanters were interested in each other, because they had very different types of magic. Vika copes better with natural phenomena, while Nikolai wields artificial mothers. The only thing that bothered me was Pasha. Personally, I`m not a fan of love triangles, but in the end I warmed to this character.For a debut novel I think this book was very impressive. There are a lot of twists and turns that were impossible to guess in advance. All characters are strong-willed and well thought-out. Vika became one of my favorite heroines, and Nikolai is in the list of boys-I-want-to-marry.I recommend this book to all fans of YA fantasy. I hope it will surpass your expectations, like it did in my case. And I also look forward to the sequel BECAUSE YOU CAN`T END A BOOK LIKE THAT!!! Enjoy your reading :) “Good.” After a long pause, the tsar rose from his wooden throne. “Then let the Crown’s Game begin.”