“There’s always room for love. Even if it’s as small as a crack in the door.”Oh, The Siren you had so much promise! Why didn't you live up to all your potential?I have such mixed emotions about The Siren. I wanted to love this such much. I saw the beautiful hardcover book in the store and read the summary and I was instantly sold. It's my first book from Kiera Cass, so I won't be drawing any comparisons between this and The Selection series. This is also my first book about sirens and it just fell really flat most of the time. Let me start on a positive note about what I did like. I actually loved the relationship between the sirens. It felt genuine and I loved the loyalty and friendship they had together. They completely had each other's backs, even if it might cost them something in return. I would like to see more books that highlighted this. I also found the relationship between Kahleen and The Ocean quite interesting. The idea that The Ocean loved these girls but that she was like an overbearing and controlling mother was very interesting and at times I felt a lot for Her. I also liked that it didn't fully focus on romance, there is romance in it but the love interest isn't even in the book that much. I was fine with that because the romance aspect was fairly forgettable.So, where did this book not work for me? Well, the insta-love part was a little over-board for me (pun intended). I get that Kahleen might grow attached fairly fast since her world has been really isolated but I didn't really buy that Akinli would fall as fast. He was a fairly bland love interest, I would have liked some more developing between the characters. I also found the book repeated itself a lot and that can drive me mad. It's like it is reminding of big time and time again. After a couple reminders, I think we have it. I also understand why so many reviewers said this book is slow, it just is. I wasn't particularly bored but I certainly wouldn't have minded if it picked up its pace somewhere in the book, it didn't. If it had been anymore than 300 pages then I think I would have had even more issues with this one. The length was good for the fact it stayed pretty slow. I think the story had some interesting ideas and I would've liked to have seen it go much darker but that is just me. It's actually a fairy creepy premise. In the end I gave this two stars because it's not something I'm going to remember. It wasn't awful but it wasn't that enjoyable for me either. I don't think I would've got this one in hardcover if I had known a little more about it, although the hardcover is quite beautiful. I can't really recommend this one but if you like Cass's other work than it might be worth it for you to check out. You probably won't remember it in a year but it's an ok way to kill a couple hours.