REVIEW OF THE 2016 VERSIONWatch My Spoiler-Free Review on Youtube http://youtu.be/vfIOQWCYeaEWatch My Spoiler-ful Discussion on Youtubehttps://youtu.be/yFIfXaQoAM4I finished this book the day I received it, nearly a week and a half ago, and since then I have let this book marinate in my head and heart. This review IS SPOILER-FREE.Though I did receive a free ARC, I was not paid or compensated in any way for this review. The thoughts and ideas are my own based on the book's content.Two VersionsIt’s really, really, REALLY no secret that I love the first version printed in 2009 The Siren. It was refreshing, it was exciting, it was everything I hoped for in a book. Though I loved it, it was flawed for mass production. So when it was announced that HarperTeen would pick it up for a rewrite for 2016, I was beyond ecstatic. Getting an ARC to read (& review) 40 days before the release was the only thing better. Now, the two versions should really be treated as separate entities. You can love both, or love one more than the other, and it’ll make no difference because they are separate on purpose. They are similar books, but not the same. Besides character names, the time setting, and a handful of landmarks, so much has changed, AND IT’S GOOD. Imagine having to return to your old school paper and projects from 6 years. There’s a million things you'd probably change with the time and resources, both because it wasn’t perfect the first time and also because you’ve improved over the past 6 years. This was a daunting task by Kiera Cass, and I’m impressed by the result.SummaryKahlen (pronounced Kay-lynn) is a girl born in the 1910s who was given a second chance at life after nearly drowning. The Ocean employs 3-5 young women as Sirens to sing ships to their doom (so the Ocean can eat the drowned victims and maintain vitality to serve the planet), just like out of a Greek myth (the sirens, not the Ocean eating people for energy). In exchange for 100 years of service, the sirens will forget their past lives as a Siren and finally have the life they were meant to live. It’s a lonely existence with no human contact, but Kahlen has her Siren Sisters: Aisling, Miaka, and Elizabeth, bringing together girls of every age and every experience to learn from each other. But Kahlen breaks the rules. By falling in love with a human, Akinli (pronounced Akin-lee, it rhymes with McKinley), the very species she's designed to kill, she risks her secret and both of their lives. The stakes are high (the water’s rough, but this love is ours) when even a single slip up could cost Kahlen and Akinli their lives.QuotesKiera Cass’ true artistry will always be her well-formed interesting characters, and her memorable, beautiful, epic one-liner quotes. Some of these have already been teased: -“I’d waited an eternity for this. I’d have waited all over again if I had to. I was meant to kiss this boy, designed to be held by him.” (There’s another line on this page which is even more beautiful and gasp-inducing).-“Life is pointless. Love is pointless. And still, wouldn’t I do every second of it all over again?” “I’m guessing yes.“ “Undoubtedly. Yes.” -“There’s always room for love. Even if it’s as small as a crack in the door.” (A very important quote, as you’ll see.)There are so many more, it takes all I have NOT to tweet random lines from the book all day long.Final ThoughtsThe Siren covers so many topics, one *might* think it wouldn’t be able to do that effectively, but Kiera Cass finds a way. The topics include, no fewer than: social norms across times, diversity of experiences, abuse, sacrifice, ALL sorts of love (motherly, friendship, soulmate), the impact of nature on the world, and the impact of the world on nature, the balance of life, and loss. With supernatural and fantasy elements set in the modern world, including important friendships and relationships, this book is more than a romance, though that relationship is at the center of most of the book. For fans of The Selection series, you’ll love learning about this new world, obsessing over the all-consuming romance, and pondering the theme that there are things worth fighting for because they are right.For new readers of Kiera Cass, it’s a standalone book (no waiting for sequels!) and a perfect book-sized sampler of her work.