”How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?”The answer is VERY! Considering that our MC has no memories and wakes up in a totally foreign body this doesn’t really come as a surprise though. I guess we’d all be scared if we’d experience something like that. I mean at first Aiden doesn’t even know his own name, all he knows is a name that dropped from his lips before he witnessed a murder. What a way to start your day! And this is just the first one. 8 days.8 different hosts. A huge manor.A murder. A violent footman.A mysterious Plague Doctor.Several rivals.And innumerable intrigues and lies that entwine around Blackheath like ivy. ”The future isn’t a warning my friend, it’s a promise, and it won’t be broken by us.”Who can you trust?Who is telling the truth?Who is lying? Who is desperate enough to cut your throat in your sleep? ”If this isn’t hell, the devil is surely taking notes.”I LOVED this so much! <3 “The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” was some sort of “Groundhog Day” meets “Every Day” and “Sherlock Holmes”. There were so many different characters in this book and each and every single one of them had their own agenda. To collect all those hints and breadcrumbs, to keep track of the happenings, to know the right order of things, it was quite a challenge! And boy, do I love myself a decent challenge. *lol* In other words: I had so much fun trying to figure out things! There were times my brain cells ended up twisted like a pretzel but this only made everything even more intriguing! XD I already said it in my pre-review and I’ll say it again: I don’t even want to know how many hours Turton invested in all those plot lines! It must have taken ages! Also the mysterious Plague Doctor and the character of the footman added quite some thrill to the story. Aiden isn’t just hunting for the killer but he’s also hunted by the footman and this gave the story such an urgent vibe that I found myself at the edge of my seat! ”Everywhere I go, he seems to be a step ahead of me. And yet, simply winning isn’t enough. He needs me to know it. He needs me to be afraid. For some reason, he needs me to suffer.”All told, I loved the atmosphere of Blackheath, the countless mysteries that floated around in the air like a seemingly impenetrable wall of mist. Easy lies falling like ripe apples from the lips of corrupted souls, truths that vanished like smoke if you scrutinized them too closely, lies within lies and deceptions that could have filled the entire mansion with their presence. In short: This was brilliant! I won’t say more! This is a book you just need to experience for yourself and it’s definitely worth it! READ IT!! You won’t regret it! ;-)For every one of you who followed my updates closely: I managed to solve at least 2 ½ of the main puzzles and I’m going to share it in the spoiler tag! XD1.) ”The Plague Doctor was telling the truth. There’s no escape from Blackheath.”I kind of figured that Blackheath is some sort of prison. I mean we got enough hints throughout the entire book, so that one was pretty easy. ;-)2.) ”It doesn’t matter whether we like her, or whether the Plague Doctor is right, you don’t get to kill somebody and put them on display. She’s innocent, and we can stop it. And we should.”I figured out that Daniel Coleridge was no future host of Aiden. The more I saw of him the more I realized that he couldn’t be. Aiden Bishop was too honourable to be Daniel and the less hosts he had left, the less likely it became that Daniel was one of them. Call it a gut feeling I had pretty early on. 3.) I figured out that Michael Hardcastle killed Evelyn. There were a couple of hints we got and I followed them as good as I could. For instance the two black revolvers that looked exactly the same. Aiden asked Michael about them on the hunt and it was that moment when I realized that Evelyn used a white revolver when she killed herself the second time. There was a change in the pattern which only left the conclusion that the black revolver had been changed and from there on it was easy to see the connection to Michael and what it meant that she hadn’t used the black one.  4.) “This isn’t a celebration, it’s a punishment, and there’ll be fifty people in their very finest clothes watching it happen.”Now to Evelyn herself... that got my brain into a real knot. At first I suspected Cunningham to be the murderer of Thomas. He had the opportunity and a motive. After all he was one of the children that went on that scavenger hunt and he was the illegitimate son of Helena Hardcastle and Charlie Carver. Jealousy is a strong motive and he didn’t seem to be happy about his position in the house. But then I got to see more of him and stopped suspecting him. Still, I KNEW, I just knew that one of Helena’s children had to be Thomas’s murderer. She had been covered in blood but it was obvious that she didn’t kill him and so I assumed that she was trying to cover for someone else. One of her own children. A mother would always try to protect her child, no matter what it did. Well, and then I got that little bit that Michael had been at home sick. So who else had an opportunity to kill Thomas and the means to do it? Evelyn. She had a horse, everyone assumed she was out riding and no one could prove where she’d been. And here came my dilemma. I was SO damn certain that Evelyn killed her own brother. I KNEW it! But I just couldn’t align her character with the cunning deed. You see, the Evelyn I got to know throughout the entire book was a good soul. She defended her maid against a rascal; she regretted her decisions, she showed kindness to a man she had despised for his actions. It didn’t fit. How could a person like that be a killer? So I was at a loss. What I never took into consideration was that Felicity was acting as Evelyn Hardcastle and that Evelyn’s maid Madeline Aubert was actually Evelyn. Turton definitely got me there. Even when Millicent Derby and Evelyn’s father were poisoned I didn’t really suspect Evelyn. I didn’t connect Millicent going to the gallery of pictures after seeing Evelyn and her maid next to each other. *lol* And I could bite myself for that mistake. XD In retrospective it all makes sense. I mean who else would want Evelyn to be out of the picture? Michaels poisoning was just an accident because he drank from the same glass Evelyn did. 5.) And now to Helena Hardcastle. I knew she wasn’t the killer right from the start. Aiden might have suspected her but she would have never hurt her own children no matter how much she despised them. (She knew Evelyn had killed Thomas, I mean she believed it to be an accident but she never forgave her for it. Yet she still protected her for years.) So since Helena was a no-show the entire book I knew she was dead, which was the reason I suspected Cunningham for a while. He was the last one to see her alive. ;-) You see, if Cunningham would have been Thomas’s murderer he would have a reason to want his mother out of the way, and if Evelyn would have been Thomas’s murderer the same would be valid for her. But Cunningham spoke with his mother and was fond of her and he would have had multiple opportunities to kill her over the years. So what changed? Evelyn appeared on the scene. And once again I was sure Evelyn killed Thomas and Helena but I couldn’t connect it with her character which seemed to be so at odds with those sinister deeds. *LOL* Damn, if I would have made that connection with Madeline. XD 6.) And last but not least: I never would have figured out that ALL of the Hardcastle’s children were from Charlie Carver. That one caught me out of the blue. Also Anna’s true identity. Never would have known that if the Plague Doctor wouldn’t have told Aiden. *lol*So I guess that’s all for now! I hope you had fun reading my musings. XD___________________________________I absolutely loved this!!! <3Like seriously, it was so much fun to collect all those puzzle pieces and breadcrumbs! This book made me think so much and I just loved it for twisting my mind! *lol*Also at least 2 ½ of my main theories were confirmed, which makes me a happy camper! =))Full review to come soon! Stay tuned! ;-)P.S: I don't even want to know how many hours Turton invested in all those plot lines. XD_______________________________This is going to be my first Halloween read of 2020 and I hope it’s going to be a good one! Technically “The Language of Thorns” turned out to be a perfect Halloween book too but this is the first one I actually chose for the spooky time of the year. XDI really like the idea of “The Seven ½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” and I’m curious to find out if it’s done well. Just imagine waking up in the body of the murderer one day. O_oBut then again the murderer doesn’t want Aiden to find out so this is going to be fun. ;-PAlso can anyone explain to me why it’s sometimes “The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” and then it’s “The Seven ½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle”?! I’d really love to know why they changed it.As it seems the title alone is already a mystery. *lol*