Honestly, if I could give this garbage a rating of negative seven trillion stars, I would. Because that's how awful it is.I'm sorry if you love this book and this series, but friend? You need to read this book CRITICALLY, because it is a fucking trainwreck. Let's break this down because I have a lot of thoughts.THIS BOOK NEEDS EDITING LIKE WHOA- Seriously, the writing is so bad. So clunky. So drawn out. - This thing is 756 pages long. It could have been half that length and still covered everything it needed to.- When, after 600-odd pages, we finally get to "OMG THE VOLTURI ARE COMING"?? Instead of jumping straight into the action, we're treated to like 75 pages of "Oh hey, like twenty million more vampires turn up, lemme describe them for you in great detail!" and "Then I went to find this guy who may or may not be shady and I'm not entirely sure why Alice is sending me there oh well, let's just dedicate an entire chapter to it anyway tralalalala"- The whole book ends with THE VOLTURI JUST LEAVING?!?!?!?!?! Like...ARE YOU SHITTING ME, MEYER?? Like two thousand fucking pages of this terrible writing and THAT'S how you write the final climax?! I AM SO FUCKING MAD, YOU GUYS. IT'S SUPER RACIST- You can argue all you want that having a Native American character makes everything okay. It really doesn't. - The perfect white vampires call the Indigenous characters dogs. They tell them they stink. They look down on them. They give them their castoff clothing. They give them food in big metal bowls with "Fido" on the side of it. It may not be INTENTIONALLY racist, but it reinforces hundreds of years of "white people are better because of the colour of their skin" bullshit. - It's full of cultural appropriation. - When other Indigenous characters turn up - this time from South America - they're referred to as savage, as feral, as wild. And Bella's afraid of them before they've even said a word. - Carlisle TOOK JACOB'S BLOOD WITHOUT PERMISSION AND DID ALL KINDS OF TESTS ON IT?!?!?!? THE FUCK. NO. That is waaaaaaaaaaay too close for comfort to all kinds of atrocious medical experiments that were done on minority groups without their knowledge. Waaaaaaaaaay too close to eugenics. N.O.P.E.- And then you add in the fact that Leah basically ends up infertile as a result of becoming part of the pack, and oof. IMPRINTING IS FUCKED UP- The whole "women basically have no say in the matter but it doesn't matter because these guys are TOTALLY perfect for them" thing is gross.- Then you add in Quil imprinting on A TODDLER, which is a) hella gross and b) literally grooming.- And THEN you get to Jacob imprinting ON A FUCKING NEWBORN BABY- Except that it goes further than that and basically implies that the only reason Jacob was ever interested in Bella was because the egg that would become Renesmee was hanging out in Bella's ovary??? - Renesmee is repeatedly sexualised, despite being an infant. She's super touchy-feely with Jacob and the way that it's written made me repeatedly uncomfortable because SHE'S THREE MONTHS OLD JESUS FUCKING CHRIST. - A literal infant (chronologically, if not developmentally. But even developmentally, she's not much more than a toddler) is wearing the equivalent of a promise ring. No thank you please.BELLA'S STORY IS A TERRIBLE EXAMPLE FOR TEENAGE GIRLS- She doesn't want to get married. But she goes through with it because Edward refuses to sleep with her unless they're married. So she talks herself into it. - Her reaction to the wedding is basically red flag after red flag after red flag. GIRL. RUN. - The honeymoon is also red flag after red flag after red flag. She's clearly not ready to have sex, and yet she's built it up so much in her head that she feels like she has to.- Her desire to have sex is constantly is constantly belittled and repeatedly shut down by Edward. GIRLS DON'T WANT SEX, BELLA. GOD. - She has no interest in having children, has never spent any time around children, and is kind of thrilled that marrying Edward means she doesn't have to worry about children. And yet ends up insta-pregnant.- The second she gets pregnant, she's all "OMG I WAS WRONG ALL THIS TIME, I REEEEEEEALLY WANT TO HAVE KIDS!!!!!!!"- The baby literally sucks the life out of her? Like, to some extent, that's what babies do anyway. But this is EXTREME life sucking. - Edward basically plans to drug her and abort the baby?? - When that fails because Rosalie gets involved, his next best plan is to get Rosalie out of the way, drug Bella, abort the baby, and then have Jacob sleep with her a bunch of times so that she can have the children she apparently now wants??? - She has literally no self-worth, to the point where when anybody looks at her once she's a supermodel-worthy vampire, she's still all "WHY WOULD THEY BE LOOKING AT ME, I'M HIDEOUS??"- In short, literally EVERYTHING that happens to Bella in the course of this book, up to and including her caesarean-by-teeth, is fucked up and not even remotely okay. IN SUMMARY- This book is the worst. - The first time I read it, I literally screamed and hurled it at the wall.- I have thousands of words of receipts on snarksquad.com- Come at me.