“No measure of time with you will be long enough, but we'll start with forever.”°•*⁀➷This book is Bella's awakening, and my favorite story ever written. Bella has been my self reflection for as long as I can remember. She starts out as the girl who doesn't belong anywhere and ends as the girl who found her true place in the world. I think I'll relate to that story for the rest of my life. Have I found my true place? Unlikely, but I have a while to figure it out. Life doesn't always start and end at the same time like it did for her.The Twilight series is my home. My love. My favorite place to escape. I have never felt so much comfort as I do when I open them and read the familiar world of Bella and Edward. And Breaking Dawn is the most beautiful conclusion to a hugely under-appreciated series. For three (four if you count Bree Tanner) books, we've slowly learned more and more about the Volturi. From their first mention in Twilight, mostly in passing during Carlisle's history, to them coming for the Cullens in Breaking Dawn, we learn so much. How they're the protectors, the "vampire police" and the group that makes it so vampirism isn't truly a part of the human world. A secret. One that must remain so, so vampires can thrive in the dark.And in every book, their true purpose only becomes more visible. What I love most about the slow lead up to the Volturi no longer being cast as the "good guys" is how slow it truly happens. We see theories, ideas, and so much corruption within them during New Moon and Eclipse, and especially in The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner... but we don't see the inside. Adding Eleazar to the plot really helps everyone to come to the conclusion that they truly only seek power and care nothing for the well-being of the vampire race. Which is why they come for the Cullens at all. There's a line near the end about everyone eventually standing up to them in the future, maybe overthrowing them for good, and I can't help but hope that's a string Stephenie will pull on in the future.I love that everything mentioned in each of the previous books closes out in this one. Whether it be the lead up to Jacob imprinting, werewolves and vampires working together, the distinction of "spirit-warrior" vs "true werewolf", Bella becoming a vampire, Bella finding herself fitting in for the first time in her life, Bella's pregnancy as a whole and Rose's acceptance of Bella's decision in the end to become a part of the Cullen family. I'd even go so far to add Jasper coming into himself as he sees Bella handle the transition to immortality so well. Realizing that maybe, if he expected more of himself, he could learn control as well as she does.Bella's transition and Eleazar's realization of the Volturi's transgressions are still two of the best scenes I've ever read in a book before. And I've read a lot of books.More than anything, Edward and Bella have been my heart since I started reading things for myself. I don't think any other couple will match their significance in my mind, though many have tried over the last couple of years. To watch them grow together, and become equals among the supernatural is the greatest journey of my life. Every time. Without fault.I hope Stephenie never gives up on them. I hope I'll be able to celebrate another book with her some day in the future. I will always trust her with my heart.- Paige