The fact that this has an above 3 rating on this website is a travesty. It's taken Snark Squad over a year to read and recap this book, in large part because it was actively awful. Listen, this isn't hating on a popular series because it's cheesy or a love story or any of that other nonsense. This is an actual garbage story. First, it's PROBLEMATIC, which is consistent from the previous entries. Bella and Edward "can't" have sex while she's a human, because if they have sex, Bella will probably actually die. For the entire series, Bella's sexuality is held hostage to Edward's rules and whims. Then, they finally get married, and instead of backing up her IF YOU HAVE SEX BEFORE MARRIAGE YOU WILL DIE BUT SEX AFTER MARRIAGE IS COOL message, Stephenie Meyer just makes sex horrible period? Bella isn’t allowed to enjoy sex. She can’t bring herself to talk about sex with her partner in a mature or adult way. Edward lords sex over her as a means of control. When she finally "gets to" have sex, it's physically dangerous for her. After she has sex, she has to repeatedly apologize for it. Bella enjoys sex, but she's "too fragile" to have it. Bella has to beg, plead and scheme her way into more sex. Bella gets insta-pregnant and it kills her. WHAT IS THIS? WHAT IS THIS MESSAGING? Breaking Dawn is also racist in a lot of little, strange, micro-aggressive ways. And then it's racist in very overt ways. Stephenie Meyer made the Native Americans in her story werewolves, and then spends the entire series calling them feral, wild, dogs, smelly and assuring us they are the lesser supernatural race. Then, in this book, we get vampires from all over the world, and all of the people of color are wild or described in the most painful and stereotypical ways. And then, in the worst turn of events ever, Jacob  imprints on A BABY. And if anyone tells you "it isn't like that," question their reading comprehension, because it is LIKE THAT AS HELL. At BEST, it is child grooming. At worst, we have to read about a pedophile over and over again. "But they are supernatural beings who don't follow our rules." Like, okay people. If that's what you need to tell yourself to feel good about reading a man fall in love with a days old baby. I, for one, hated it. It's gross, especially because it's meant to be this epic love. Imprinting as a concept is messed up because it robs agency from especially the women in the equation. It's extra gross when that woman is actually A BABY. You guys, it's implied that the entire reason Jacob even liked Bella was because of a pull toward HER UNFERTILIZED EGG? LIKE W H A T T H E H E L L. But okay. Let's say you don't care about all the awful messaging in this book, from misogyny to pedophiles, and racism in between. This also is not a good story? It's nearly 800 pages of NEXT TO NOTHING HAPPENING. 800 pages and we rush past the marriage (the ceremony is skipped over), get a chapter of honeymoon, then she's pregnant and we get the pregnancy and delivery FROM TWO DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES WHY, and then the Volturi take MONTHS to get to Fork and I swear to god, at one point the vampires spend an entire night staring at each other. I'M NOT JOKING. In the last 30ish pages, we get the big "showdown," but after gathering all of these incredibly powerful vampires, the big showdown is a bunch of people talking in a field for 4 chapters. And then that's it. And then it's over.AFTER 800 PAGES. It was boring, plot-less, repetitive, Bella consistently cheats her way through narration, knowing things she couldn't possibly know. Meyer plays fast and loose with her own vampire rules. Bella is immediately the best at everything, so there is absolutely no tension there. We spend 3 books building up to OH NOES BABY VAMPS ARE DANGEROUS! And then in like one hot second it's like "lol, it's okay, Bella is too special to be dangerous." Wow. Payoff. Nothing makes sense, everything is the worst, why do people like this, please send help. Full recaps here: http://www.snarksquad.com/category/bo...