I read this novella in the Arcanum Unbounded: The Cosmere Collection along with my fellow brigdemen (and bridgewomen?) : Celeste, Petrik, Sarah and MaryNo matter how good you were, someone was better. Live by that knowledge, and you would never grow so confident that you became sloppy.This is a re-read of the Emperor's Soul and while it was just good the first time I read it, this time I found it to be an exceptional masterpiece!! I'm truly speechless and I never experienced this feeling before! But this time I truly took my time, savored every word, paid attention to every detail and put the book down from time to time to ponder some retorts or deep thoughts. This was one of the most quotable books I've ever read ! With his simple, yet elegant writing, Brandon Sanderson delivered a remarkable reflection on the complexity of human nature, on the passions that stir; forge or define a person, on the passing of time and how it changes us, remodel us and stifle the fire and dreams of our youth. There was rarely an obvious branching point in a person’s life. People changed slowly, over time. You didn’t take one step, then find yourself in a completely new location.In a little over 100 pages, Sanderson created a new Empire, a new magic system, new complex and compelling characters, and managed to include a brilliant philosophical reflection and detailed explantations and links to the Cosmere. My only complaint about this book is that it is short ! Too short ! And I think my frustration at its length was what made me give it 4 stars the first time I read it. But if you can write 100 pages and include this amount of information, details, complexity, thoughts and feels, than you deserve all the stars, and all the praise that can be given !! “I suspect,” Gaotona said, “that a life full of lying makes reality and falsehood intermix.I don't want to say more about the magic or the characters lest I spoil the surprises of the novella but really if you're fan of Sanderson and his Cosmere, this is an absolute must! And if you love philosophical reflection in your Fantasy, or if you're fond of Fantasy with complex and original magic system, this book is for you!!