The Emperor's SoulBy Brandon SandersonA Review by Eric AllenDue to his work on The Wheel of Time, Brandon Sanderson has not had much time over the last few years for working on his own books. As such, he has elected to write several novellas as sequels to his already published works to tide his fans over until he is freed up from his obligations to the Wheel of Time, and can put his focus entirely back into his own works. The Emperor's Soul is one of these books. Though not actually a sequel, it takes place within the same world as Elantris, though in a distant land, and with none of the same characters.Shai is a forger, a person able to create exact copies of anything through magic and an understanding of its history and its pieces. Imprisoned for the theft of priceless artifacts, leaving fakes in their place, Shai awaits the day of her execution. When the Arbiters, those who rule in the Emperor's name, come to her with a proposition, she has little choice to accept. The Emperor has been attacked in an assassination attempt, and though his wounds have been healed, his mind is gone, empty, like a blank slate. Shai is given the task of making a forgery of the Emperor's soul to replace the one that was lost in the attack, and she must finish within one hundred days. Additionally, she must find some way to escape in that time, because it is doubtful that she will be allowed to keep her life with the knowledge that the Emperor himself is a creation of hers.As she delves deeper into her work, it begins to consume her. She puts her all into it, though her life is in danger, because she needs to find out if she is capable of such an awesome task, unable to leave without finding out if her forgery will work or not, not even to save her own life.The Good? This book is short and sweet. It doesn't waste any time getting into the story and the characters. Sanderson has done a very good job of developing Shai as a person through her studies of the Emperor's life, and her philosophical discussions with those who hold her captive. The book is also has a very clever and well hidden message that I believe is a very important one. I'll allow you to find it on your own, if you are able to.The world feels real, the characters feel real, and they do things for very real motivations. The forgery magic system, and the religion of the Empire that teaches that it is an abomination are both very interesting, and allow for some very interesting discussions on morality and points of view. Shai's motives and desire to do what no one has ever done before are very well explained in her actions, and her diving deeply into the the task that has been placed before her makes for a very interesting and entertaining character.The Emperor's Soul is very well written. One of Sanderson's biggest criticisms is that his writing feels very stiff and sometimes lacking in emotion or passion. And though I do enjoy many of his books, I can see where that criticism's roots lie. But this book had none of that in it. It flowed along perfectly, and with the right emotional connections at the right places. Another of his greatest criticisms is that his stories are basically vehicles to show off his ingenuity with magic systems. While a great deal of this book deals with the magic system, and it's morality, the story itself is more about Shai and her motivations as a character this time around. And as such, I found this book to be a lot more entertaining than a lot of Sanderson's previous works.The Bad? This is actually a first. I don't have anything bad to say about this book. There isn't anything I can complain about. I might count its short length as a negative, except for the fact that the story was exactly the length it needed to be. Adding in more scenes would have been unnecessary and would have clogged the story up with things that the plot just didn't need.In conclusion, though this book was short, it was very good. It has an excellent message in it, and a great climax at the end. I very much enjoyed the discussion on morality that this book brings up, and found the dialog to be witty and clever. There is very little external action, but the book is no less entertaining for it. It's a great book for its size and I think anyone who likes the Fantasy Genre will highly enjoy this. Check out my other reviews.**It has come to my attention that Brandon Sanderson has won a Hugo Award with this book. It is well deserved, and I offer him my congratulations on such a prestigious award.**