I got about 14 pages into this and it was everything that bugged me about Malice all over again, with a heroine very much the same. Despite being marketed as adult fantasy, it’s that standard YA first-person, present-tense voice; the protagonist supposedly is 25 (!), but her primary concern is being constantly and openly bullied by the mean girls of the town for being different. Her other concerns are that her mom is missing and that she might suffer corporal punishment for fighting back against the mean girls. Then, she sacrifices herself to save all these people who look down on her anyway because a female character has to be a saint to be “likeable” don’tcha know, and this totally doesn’t send the message that the only way someone who’s victimized can be a worthwhile human being is by being a doormat and thereby enabling more of the same. Putting yourself before people who go out of their way to make your life miserable? Blasphemy! The angel in the house would never do that.There’s been talk lately about how readers are likely to label fantasy by female authors as YA when the authors themselves don’t see it that way, and I worry about having a potential gender bias there. I have indeed had this reaction to a number of recent books. On the other hand, while I haven’t read a fantasy novel by a man in a couple of years, I think I’m still able to pick it out in their works: Robert Jordan’s Wheel of Time series, for instance, is written in quite a juvenile register despite its elevated vocabulary. It may not quite fit the YA genre, but it’s definitely best enjoyed around the age of 13.So yeah, sometimes it’s the readers mislabeling books (not everything with a young protagonist is written for young readers), but sometimes it’s the publishers. Has fantasy always been this teenage-y? Is the popularity of the YA genre causing its tropes to creep into adult fiction? Or is this the result of authors writing essentially YA books that just can’t be marketed as such because they have a bit too much sex or gore in them (which appears to be the case here)? At any rate, it’s frustrating to pick up these books only to find them full of teenage concerns, black-and-white characterization, and lack of psychological believability (and a supposed 25 year old who could more naturally have been written as 16). I’ll pass on this one.