Three stars might seem a bit harsh for one of the best adult comics published today, but it reflects my disappointment with how little actual content there was in this third story arc. There simply isn't enough meat on the bare bones of the adventure to justify calling it space opera or even epic. It feels more like a resume, a synopsis of the actual events. I finished it all in a couple of hours on a Sunday afternoon, and now I have to wait until the end of the year for the next story arc to be completed (I refuse to read monthly installments for the same reason: too little material - just whetting my appetite for more and then leaving me hanging). At this rate the series will take longer than A Song of Ice and Fire to reach the finish line.I think it is fair to say I would not be so disappointed if I didn't actually like what I read. I believe the awards and the praise Saga is receiving are entirely deserved, especially for the artwork of Fiona Staple. The worldbuilding, what little we have seen of it so far, is also excellent. Vaughn manages to insert strong social commentary and anti-war messages in the conversations between characters.As for the third story arc itself: Romeo and Juliet, a.k.a. Marko and Alana, two deserters from opposing armies in the galactic war, are hiding with their newborn daughter in the house of a one-eyed writer (Futurama reference for geeks?). They are pursued by a robot-head Prince, by a bountyhunter with a telepathic cat, by a vengeful ex-girlfriend and, newly introduced here, a couple of scandal journalists. The build up is slow, but the resolution is well handled, closing this particular arc at a good point and promising interesting developments in the future.I saved one quote that I particularly enjoyed, as the writer is reading extremely horrible fairytales to the little girl: All good children's stories are the same: young creature breaks rules, has incredible adventure, then returns home with the knowledge that aforementioned rules are there for a reson.Of course, the actual message to the careful reader is: break the rules as often as you can because who the hell doesn't want to have an adventure.Recommended for very patient readers, willing to invest the time waiting for the next issues.