My thoughts in a nutshell Awww! This was so adorable. I don't really enjoy middle-grade category because I always feel too old myself for that, but I didn't feel it with Nevermoor. Everyone compares this book to Harry Potter. Nevermoor is not Harry Potter. They have nothing to do with each other. Keep in mind!The story is about…Skip over this point if you don't like the sneak peek. Morrigan, who is a "cursed" child. She travels to Nevermoor and she has to do four trials to become a member of Wundrous Society. What impressed me Nevermoor is such a fascinating and imaginative read. I adored the whole world-building, it was so magical and whimsical. If something terrible happened, society blamed Morrigan because she is a cursed girl. So, the book started with Morrigan's apologies letters. I laughed so much about that. I loved the characterization of this novel. Every character has a personality even though it is a middle-grade book! Morrigan is a brave, intelligent little girl. I liked her temperament. She is an excellent protagonist.I don't know why, but I thought through the book that Jupiter is a woman. I saw that he is a gentleman, but my brain kept telling me he is a she. LOL. It makes no sense, I know. Anyway, he was my absolute favorite person. His attitude and humor worked for me perfectly.I enjoyed the trials. All were interesting and exciting, but my favorite was the first one, the talking paper. I want the same exam method at my school.Nevermoor's most powerful point is the writing style. Jessica Townsend is a talented storyteller. I admire how fluent and fabulous her book is. The ending was predictable, but I still enjoy it. I will probably read the second and third book.I listened to the audiobook version, the narrator did a fantastic job. Her voice brought the story to life.What I don't like It was a bit long. I felt some part was over-written and I noticed I started to feel some boredom. This is just a personal opinion. I'm starting to get bored soon if the book is too repetitive. Make a conclusion Overall, Nevermoor is a real page-turner. I highly recommend it to young and adult as well. It is an utterly delightful and lighthearted read for the summer.  I gave it a strong 4 stars.