I really thought this was the best of the bunch.The pacing was far better in The Winter of the Witch than it was in the first 2 books. Which to me, means the story itself wandered less and moved toward the action and resolution in a timely manner.Also, if you love horses, you'll love these books.I'm going to have to say I've never really seen the appeal of horses. When I was a kid I used to go help my neighbor lady take care of her horses in the summer. I wasn't a huge fan. They were nice horses and all, and it wasn't like I had a bad experience, but they're such a pain in the ass as far as upkeep goes.Cats. I like cats. Not a very needy pet, you know? However, Vasya loves horses, talks to the horses, and her best friend is a horse.Point is, horse lovers will really dig this book.But that's neither here nor there because Vasya is about to get her ass burnt up by that shitty priest and his idiotic peasant followers.  Unfortunately for the villagers, Vasya doesn't go up in flames. Instead, she pops out of the fire and eats all their babies!No. Just kidding. But that would have been fun, also.Instead, Morozko makes a deal with his brother to save her. Not sure she really needed him, but it's the thought that counts, you know?Turns out, there's an army heading toward Moscow and it's up to Vasya to unite the humans and the otherworldy creatures to save her beloved Russia.Now, if I were her, I would have left those assholes to their fate. <--which is probably why this story isn't about me.Anyway, it's summertime in Russia...  So, the Winter King, her biggest ally and the guy she loves, can't do anything without basically melting like Frosty the Snowman. But a girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do. She makes some new friends! And by makes friends, I mean she kind of forces some of these magical folks that hate humans to help her.Good things happen, bad things happen, and spoilery things happen. And then the story is over.I liked it! Glad I went ahead and finished this trilogy.