First read July 2014Second read May 2016Rating: Same. (I'll explain)This book is called Magic Bleeds. Just like my heart bled for Kate in the first chapters. For years, first my father and then my guardian, Greg, had warned me to stay away from human relationships. Friends and lovers only brought you trouble....................................................................One day I’d find someone to lean on as well. It just wouldn’t be Curran. And I really had to stop thinking about him, because it hurt.When you don't know what's really happening, don't you just want to kill Curran?? How could he do that to poor Kate??Curran likes to play. He's a cat after all. a big one, but still a cat. He is attracted to power, which Kate has in large quantities. I think he was cynical in this book. Even his thoughts were cynical (Curran POV Collection). He wants Kate, but he's not eager to sacrifice anything. He demands things from Kate and gives nothing in return, because he's the Beast Lord. One of the best parts of the book was the Conclave scene. Oh, how I loved Saiman there. I was enjoying so much that Curran was suffering.“There is only one difference between us. The Beast Lord will lie to you. He’ll tell you he loves you, that you’ll always be the only one, that he’ll sacrifice everything to be with you and keep you safe. I won’t lie to you. I won’t make promises I can’t keep. Honesty, Kate. I offer honesty.”I couldn't agree more. This. THIS is the reason for my disbelief towards Curran. Take it, you jerk!And the other best part was when Kate massacred all her challengers. She is a total kickass/badass.Of course there were some steeamyyy scenes, that uhhh...And the humor is never absent: “While you’re with me, I’m the only one. Anybody else touches you and I’ll kill them.”“What if I accidentally bump into someone?”Gold flashed in his eyes. “Don’t.”4 **** stars, because:"Besides, if Curran didn't think you're fit, he wouldn't have made the offer. Yes, he's obsessed with you, but he's shrewd enough to take your ability into consideration. Alphas are typically attracted to other alphas. I wouldn't mate with a weakling, and neither would he. This part, and oh so many others, make me think that the only reason Curran wants Kate is so she can help him protect his damn Pack. So you can understand now why I started liking him only at the end of book #7 and in book #8. Nevertheless, the book was full of good action. Secondary characters make this book awesome. Dr Doolittle is so funny. Have you guys noticed the age difference between Julie and Derek is 6 years, same as in Kate/Curran? I should have noticed these hints!