4.33 stars. While Magic Bleeds doesn't quite hit the heights of the third book, Magic Strikes, it's still a great, action-packed book.As a mercenary peacekeeper, Kate gets called to investigate a strangely intense fight at a bar. When she gets there, there's a body strung up on a utility pole, pinned to it with a crowbar. The body is very dead ... but the deadly disease that infests him is NOT. As magically virulent flesh-colored fuzz starts creeping toward Kate and others, it's all Kate can do to try to contain it within magical ward circles.This is just the start of troubles for Kate. Two more attacks occur, more dead bodies pile up, more magically mobile diseases attack. As it turns out, someone with a very long relationship (think centuries, even millennia) with Kate's magical father has Kate, the Pack, and Atlanta generally in their sights.Meanwhile, after things had started looking up for Kate's slow-developing relationship with Curran the Beast Lord at the end of book #3, it all comes crashing down at the beginning of this one: Curran doesn't show up for an EXTREMELY significant dinner for two, with no explanation, and Kate gets blown off when she calls the Keep (the shapeshifter's Atlanta compound) to check on him. Being Kate, she doesn't take it at all well. The question is, who can out-stubborn who? Magic Bleeds is a solid entry in the Kate Daniels urban fantasy series, with the familiar mixture of vampires, werewolves and other shapechangers, ancient and exotic gods (this type we're dealing with Babylonian legends), sometimes unreliable magic, and a major helping of snark. This one is noteworthy for some serious changes in Kate's life and some significant revelations about her past and her ancestry.You know those books that keep you up way too late at night because you just need to finish them since you just can't leave the characters hanging where they are? Yeah, this is one of those. And the second time I read it, instead of staying up all hours, I read it during the day while I should've been doing other things. But Curran and Kate kept calling to me ...