Allow me to tell you about Kate’s family:HER FAMILY FROM THE PAST:1. Her biological father, Roland. We finally learn the true story of Roland, the story of his first children and the first vampire he had created. Kate tells the story to a golem to emphasize the power of the blood that runs in her veins.2. Her mother. We learn how she feels about her mother and her importance. Kate shows an old picture of her to Andrea. Unfortunately Kate has no memories and no recollection of her mother and her step father being together.3. Her aunt and her seven undead servants. Kate and her bloodthirsty auntie have a “pleasant reunion”. They share memories and stories. They have a cup of tea. Her aunt talks about her old goldfishes, about the loved ones who come and go through the centuries. She talks about how badly she would like to destroy Atlanta and kill every available shapeshifter. They fight to death.HER FAMILY FROM THE PRESENT:1. Her best friend Andrea. The closet beastkin hyena is in trouble and Kate does not hesitate to offer a real valuable artifact to get her and her boyfriend, Raphael, off the hook. Kate will not hesitate to help Andrea at any cost and any time. 2. Her adopted niece, Julie. Kate agonizes for her safety. She is crazy of worry in case something happens to Julie. She is afraid that her psychopath aunt will try to hurt Julie in order to hurt Kate.3. The Pack. They have become her closest friends. They run to her rescue, they patch her injuries, they make her feel safe. They are her true home. Kate will not let anyone think less of them and call them nonhuman.4. The dog. Kate unexpectedly is the proud owner of a poodle who loves to vomit and bark to creatures that threaten Kate. Kate will have a hard time finding a name for him. Everything else will come easy.5. Greg’s House. Maybe it is time for Kate to say her goodbyes and move on. The Keep is waiting for her.HER FUTURE FAMILY:Obviously.Curran. Curran. Curran. Curran.The disappointing dinner date will be a good start for Kate to acknowledge her feelings for Curran.The silent treatment, after the disappointing dinner date, will be a good start for Curran to acknowledge the sacrifices he is willing to make for Kate.The games they play and the hilarious pranks they pull on each other, after the explanations about the disappointing dinner date, will make the start of their mating easier. The games and the pranks will be definitely a pure delight for readers as well.Well this is one these books. These books you want to start reading again, the second you finish them. The best book so far in the series. I absolutely loved it!