First reread January 2015Original rating: 5New rating: 8☆☆☆ Post-Shift Productions proudly present ☆☆☆Yet Another Exciting Day in the Life of Kate Daniels►8.00 a.m.: investigate the death of a human barnacle. Realize it's a case of magically delicious syphilis. It's going to be a long day. Again.► 8.30 a.m.: think about His Furiness. Feel like punching His Furiness in the face. Where did that thought come from?► 9.00 a.m.: fight a demonic, spawn-of-hellish beast. Good doggy.► 9.30 a.m.: listen to your voice mail at work. "I curse your arms so they will wither and die and fall off your body. I curse your eyeballs to explode. I curse your feet to swell until blue. I curse you. I curse you. I curse you." Okay then.► 10.00 a.m.: still investigating. A guy in a cloak did it. Good to know. Consider praying to Miss Marple.► 10.30 a.m.: find yourself doodling a horned lion with a pie on his pitchfork. Now who could that be?► 11.00 a.m.: trade your teenage werewolf sidekick for a deadly, mutant attack poodle.► 11.30 a.m.: bubonic plague. Dysentery. Influenza. Cholera on magic steroids. What did you ever do to anybody? ► 12.00 a.m.: wish that the furry bastard would stop intruding on your thoughts for five seconds. Consider dancing a jig in celebration the minute it happens.► 12.30 a.m.: discuss vamp storage cavities with Ghastek. Find out he prefers throats to anuses. Thank the gods for small favors.► 1.00 p.m.: friendly visit to the Mercenary Guild. Find a guy pinned to the elevator shaft by a spear through his throat. Nifty.► 1.30 p.m.: Oh look, the Beast Lord. Stay cool. Zen. No punching in the face. Punching would not be Zen.► 2.00 p.m.: be awed by His Fussiness' ability to use big words. A friendly conversation ensues. Consider throwing in some whistling. And rolling thumbleweed. You're all set. ► 2.30 p.m.: time for a well-deserved break. Go home, resurrect a head in the kitchen. Your deadly attack poodle barfs a little. ► 3.00 p.m.: have His Furry Majesty throw you around a little. Things are looking up.► 3.30 p.m.: get Raphael & Andrea out of jail. Hot tub. SIG-Sauer P-226. Diving for clams. That's boudas for you.► 4.00 p.m.: sneak into the Keep. Weld the bimbo room shut. Decorate with catnip. Fun times. ► 4.30 p.m.: go back to the office. Have a short phone conversation with His Furiness. Realize your butt is glued to your chair. ► 5.00 p.m.: surprise visit from Auntie Erra. She came all the way from Babylon too. Coolest aunt ever. This is one happy little squirrel.► 5.30 p.m.: Saiman suicidal. Curran homicidal. Oh. My. God. The Universe just exploded. BIG TIME.► 5.45 p.m.: relax in a hot tub. Lose all sense. It's not the bathtub, baby. Oh boy.► 6.00 p.m.: decide to give your judgemental crocodile bodyguard a room at the Keep. Think it might give Jim an aneurysm. ► 6.30 p.m.: meet Auntie Erra again. Realize she recently developed a fetish for spandex. Why you?► 7.00 p.m.: bloodward. No problem. Meow. ► 7.30 p.m.: pinned to the ground? No biggie. Got a toothpick.► 8.00 p.m.: relax after a long day's work. Read The Princess Bride to a big sleeping cat.► 8.30 p.m.: attend a lovely family reunion at the Keep. Feel very welcome. Challenge a few shapeshifters just for kicks. ► 9.00 p.m.: read The Princess Bride to a big sleeping cat. Again. Will this day never end?► 9.30 p.m.: meet a gay mongoose with an ambitious name. Try to keep the creepy down a notch. Fail miserably. ► 10.00 p.m.: feline wake-up time. Attend yet another family reunion. This is one pissed off little kitty. RAWR. Oh boy. **********Original review (June 2014):This series is killing me! How much sleep do I have to lose over it?? Magic Bleeds is such an amazing read that by the time I finished the book I wasn’t sure whether I wanted to read it again or jump right to the next one…I could do this. I just had to stay cool. Zen. No punching in the face. Punching would not be Zen.Well, to be honest, the first part of the book wasn’t that fantastic but the second half simply blew me away. Why? Action, mystery, the usual Kate badassery, lots of emotion, some downright heart-breaking moments and humour, lots of it.A lion roar burst through the phone. I held it away from my ear until he was done. “Very scary. I feel it’s my duty to remind you that threatening a member of law enforcement is punishable by law. If you would like to file a petition regarding your break-in, the Order will gladly look into the matter for you.” The phone fell silent. Oh God, I gave him an aneurysm.In this instalment we get more details about Kate’s blood and lineage (lovely family!) and learn about the Pack rules & regulations in detail (such complexity, I love that!). Kate becoming Curran’s mate is wreaking havoc in the Pack politics, with most of its members suffering from a collective panic attack. This new situation is unsettling for most of the weres and gives a new edge to the series, with some unexpected twists & developments.Kate Daniels, deadly swordmaster. Fear my twitching pinkie.Kate. Do I really have to go into this? Okay. Hall Hail the Queen of Snarky Badasses. I rest my case.The rabbis paled. I’d managed to terrify holy men. Maybe I could beat up a nun for an encore.The Kate/Curran love story does take precedence over the action in this instalment, which apparently disappointed some readers. I actually liked that the romance part of the series was only a subplot until now and was afraid this would turn into some boring paranormal romance thing. Well, fear not for Ilona Andrews handles things very well. I was annoyed at first because Kate & Curran were both acting stubborn and very childish but it didn’t last long. Besides, things never get corny-mushy between them. With these two? Oh no. They’d rather rip each other apart first! This is no bunnies & rainbows romance. We get some very serious conversations between Kate & His Fuzziness but mostly we get hilarious scenes. The mating game is just hilarious. Kate shutting Curran out of the slut hut! Curran gluing Kate's butt to her chair! It doesn’t get much better than that!“What’s this?”“A needle.”“What should I do with it?” He’d walked right into it. Too easy.“Please use it to pop your head. It’s obscuring my view of the room.”Yes. I'm in love with this series. Yes. I want to be Kate Daniels when I grow up. Yes I need to get my hands on the next instalment NOW.• Book 1: Magic Bites ★★★★★• Book 2: Magic Burns ★★★★★• Book 3: Magic Strikes ★★★★★• Book 5: Magic Slays ★★★★★• Book 6: Magic Rises ★★★★★• Book 7: Magic Breaks ★★★★★• Book 8: Magic Shifts ★★★★★• Book 9: Magic Binds ★★★★★• Book 10: Magic Triumphs ★★★★