4.5 starsI love it! This is way better than the first book, lots of revelations, more epics and more terrible metaphors from David that I'll be quoting in my review. The plot, world, characters, okay basically everything about this book is great, its easy to read, a major fast read etc. What the hell am I writing, I have no idea how to review this book so its going to be a mess.It was as black as charcoal at midnight inside. Or, well, as black as a grape at midnight—or pretty much anything at midnight. I felt my way to a seat as the machine started to putter, then sank down quietly.World building and WritingThe world building is amazing! Sparks, the book took place in Babilar not Newcago, Babilar is ruled by a water epic, so that means the whole city is flooded, all the houses are filled with water, the residents have to live on roof tops, since its BS he potrayed this so well, that I would love to go visit. Just like the first book this is also written in first person POV of David, so that means lots of weird metaphors.I mixed with ordinary people about the same way that a bucket of paint mixed with a bag of gerbils.CharactersMy fav is David, he is so unlike your regular YA male protagonist, he is neither arrogant nor rude despite being handsome, he is extremely kind to people, he is a weirdo and a nerd but also great with guns, I really like him.I didn’t expect you to be nice.”“Me?” I said.“Sure!” She seemed to be recovering some of her natural perkiness. “Steelslayer, the guy who talked Phaedrus into hitting Steelheart. I expected you to be all intimidating and brooding and ‘They killed my father’ and intense and everything.”“How much do you know about me?” I asked, surprised.“More than I probably should. Megan is lovely, I can't even imagine what its like to be an epic, but she fought the darkness and tried so hard to be good, go girl, not to mention she is so badass.I needed to say something. Something romantic! Something to sweep her off her feet.“You’re like a potato!” I shouted after her. “In a minefield.”She froze in place. Then she spun on me, her face lit by a half-grown fruit. “A potato,” she said flatly. “That’s the best you can do? Seriously?”“It makes sense,” I said. “Listen. You’re strolling through a minefield, worried about getting blown up. And then you step on something, and you think, ‘I’m dead.’ But it’s just a potato. And you’re so relieved to find something so wonderful when you expected something so awful. That’s what you are. To me.”“A potato.”“Sure. French fries? Mashed potatoes? Who doesn’t like potatoes?” Prof reminds me of Dalinar, they are just too alike, I love Mizzy, can't wait for more of her. Cody and Abraham was barely in this, hopefully they'll be in the next. Tia is okay,but her character didn't develop, its same with the first book.