Hello Beautiful Book BlogMOAR DAVID! ♥More action, more suspense, more awesomeness! Great sequel in the Reckoners series!“My name is David Charleston. I kill people with super powers.”Firefight felt like a complete separate story from Steelheart. David is in a new city in this book, very similar to NYC. There is a new team they are working with to try and bring down another very powerful Epic. There are still some mysteries surrounding everything they are trying to accomplish, so that aspect is still there.We get more of David's bad metaphors, excuse me, similes, which are probably my favorite part of it all. I find myself counting each one, highlighting and bookmarking so I can come back to them later. I have no idea how Brandon Sanderson comes up with this stuff, but it is hilarious.I have to leave you with a couple more, I can't resist.This one is long, but soooo worth it. My favorite part of the whole book:“You’re like a potato!” I shouted after her. “In a minefield.”She froze in place. Then she spun on me, her face lit by a half-grown fruit. “A potato,” she said flatly. “That’s the best you can do? Seriously?”“It makes sense,” I said. “Listen. You’re strolling through a minefield, worried about getting blown up. And then you step on something, and you think, ‘I’m dead.’ But it’s just a potato. And you’re so relieved to find something so wonderful when you expected something so awful. That’s what you are. To me.”“A potato.”“Sure. French fries? Mashed potatoes? Who doesn’t like potatoes?”“Plenty of people. Why can’t I be something sweet, like a cake?”“Because cake wouldn’t grow in a minefield. Obviously.”She stared down the hallway at me for a few moments, then sat on an overgrown set of roots.Sparks. She seemed to be crying. Idiot! I thought at myself, scrambling through the foliage. Romantic. You were supposed to be romantic, you slontze! Potatoes weren’t romantic. I should have gone with a carrot.”“I mixed with ordinary people about the same way that a bucket of paint mixed with a bag of gerbils.” Same.The sun sank down like a giant golden pat of butter melting onto the corn of New Jersey. Or … wait. That abandoned city was kind of more like spinach than corn. So the sun sank down into the spinach of Jersey. I don't have a whole lot to say about Firefight. There is still the big question looming what exactly is Calamity? We get a taste of the answer, but it is still a mystery that I can't wait to find out! This was kind of like another episode where things get resolved, but then another threat has surfaced. Mizzy was a nice addition to the characters. She was funny and brave. "Step One: find Regalia, then totally explode her. Lots and lots."I was so glad to see a relationship blossoming. ♥♥♥“This time, when she’d pointed it at me, she’d flicked the safety on. If that wasn’t true love, I don’t know what was.”Now, on to the final installment. I have read some bad ending lately, so come on Sanderson! Make me proud.What I want to see from Calamity you ask?♥ Backgrounds for Prof, Tia and Mizzy♥ More explanation of "Calamity"♥ More similes, of course♥ Megan and David in love♥ All my favorite characters liveThat's not too much to ask right?!I really love this series and after I finish Calamity I will be really sad to let David go!Follow me on Twitter @hbbookblog