What is it about mutually horrible, morally questionable, murder prone people falling in love that is so utterly addicting? This book so extremely entertaining. It hooks you right from the first line and keeps you reading till the end. The main character, Alessandra, is a vain and wicked girl with a villenous plan. She is a murderer, a schemer, and a liar. But you know what, so is the Shadow King and that’s what makes them great together!They are two murderous peas in a pod and it's beautiful!I loved the dynamic between the characters. I loved how neither of them flinched away from the other’s darkest secrets, accepting each other for the messed up people they are. I only wish we could have gotten more interactions of them being their murder prone selves because I loved the mutual scheming.Another thing I liked was the relationships with the background characters. Alessandra actually had friends, Hestia and Rhoda, and they actually talked about things that mattered to them. Too often we get books where the girls only talk about boys. The male characters were also nice, if a bit underdeveloped.This brings me to the bad parts of this imperfect novel.This book has no world-building. Everything happens and is explained only on a superficial level. The world of the novel is only ever vaguely mentioned. The Shadow King rules over 6 conquered kingdoms, one of which is currently rebelling. All mentions of those kingdoms and that rebellion could have been removed and it wouldn’t impact the plot whatsoever. The world outside the castle is never described and it honestly did not matter.The Shadow King has the power of shadows. This is vaguely explained and just sort of shrugged off at one point. We never go in-depth into his powers or their reason for being. It could have made for really cool mythology, but alas.Another thing is that there is electricity in this world but no other form of modern technology. Everyone has swords, but randomly there are guns? When does this take place? What fictional time period is this??? I couldn’t build a proper image of the world in my head, probably because as I said, THIS BOOK HAS NO WORLD BUILDING!!!! It could take place in a void for all that it cares to explain.In the end, I really enjoyed this. I didn’t want it to end. I lowkey wanted it to have a sequel, but alas, it’s standalone. I will have to find my murderous couple fix from elsewhere.Overall, this book has many, many flaws. There were times when I couldn’t overlook or ignore some things that I had an issue with. That said, I still greatly enjoyed this book. If you like to see two morally questionable people falling in love and don’t mind some vague worldbuilding, this might be the book for you!I now want to read more of this author’s books!**I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.**Follow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest