Quick Stats:Overall: 5/5 StarsCharacters: 5/5Setting: 4/5Writing: 5/5Plot and Themes: 5/5Awesomeness Factor: 5/5Review in a Nutshell: The Shadows Between Us is a fun, addictive novel that lived up to all of my expectations- a feat I worried would be impossible.“They've never found the body of the first and only boy who broke my heart. And they never will.”(This is literally the first line in the book how can you not want to read more?!?!)// Content Warning: Violence, Death, Assault, Slut Shaming, Murder //"I know when I've been beaten, and I have barely even started."Release Date: 2/25/2020Publisher: Feiwel and FriendsPage Count: 326Premise:This book has been described as a Slytherin romance, and honestly? There’s no better way to describe it. Alessandra has a goal: marry the Shadow King, then kill him and take his kingdom. The challenge? She isn’t the only one who wants him dead, and she must keep him alive long enough to make it to the author. ““You are beautiful,” he continues. “But not so beautiful as to tempt me.””(Love Kallias, master of the art of complementing someone and insulting them at the same time)- Writing & Setting - Tricia Levenseller became one of my favorite authors after Daughter of the Pirate King for a few key reasons, and one of them being her writing style. She writes amazing banter between characters, and she manages to create a fantasy world without ever overwhelming the reader. There is a hint of magic in this world, and it has its explanations and is fully grounded, but other than kingdom politics, not much else of the world is explained. I personally didn’t mind, because everything I needed was explained perfectly, but don’t come into this expected a Game of Thrones level amount of worldbuilding and depth here."Who in the world would steal and then not keep the riches for themselves? That’s just bad business."(I mean, she's not wrong)- Plot -This book is so fun. The plot has a bit of mystery, plenty of scheming, and of course, an amazing romance. The book is perfectly paced, and had me hooked from page one. The plot twists were a little predictable, however some aspects of them did actually surprise me. This book also tackles themes of misogyny and slut shaming really well!“Don’t be afraid of who you are. Say what you wish. Be who you wish. Don’t try to be someone else.”- Characters - Our main characters are horrible and I love them so much. Let's talk about Alessandra. She’s cunning, ambitious, and has no regrets. She knows what she wants and she will take it, no matter what is in her way. I loved how resourceful and intelligent she is, and I especially loved her interest in fashion. She’s my queen. Kallias didn’t get quite as much development as Alessandra, but I still love him. He’s equally ambitious, and the two of them together are a little villainous but in the best way. Their romance isn’t really enemies-to-lovers, but instead almost sweet, and it was so adorable. I will say, I can see people not liking the main characters- they are not good people- but for me that’s part of the appeal.There are some great side characters, with an emphasis on friendship between women that I loved! Also, there are some LGBTQ+ side characters, and I really loved how being queer is completely normal in this world.”I would not allow myself to die in the grave I’d dug.”(an / i c o n / i love her so much)- Conclusion -Pros- Fascinating characters, addicting plot, great writingCons- The main characters may not be for you (but they also might!)Overall- 5/5 stars. The Shadows Between Us is a fantastic novel, with a fun premise and unique characters, you will fall in love.Follow Me Here: Blog ||Tumblr || Bookstagram || Twitter|| Reviews