I am...so sad. Marketed as a Slytherin romance with a leading lady who is unapologetically cunning, I was all for this book. It was one of my anticipated releases, but it ultimately just fell short for me.First thing I noted was the simplicity of the writing. Not every book has to be elaborately written, but when the plot is quite literally being laid out on a plate in front of you with zero room for doubt or interpretation, there's no space left for guessing or intrigue. You're just told everything, and move on with a simple "oh ok". What's more, I didn't really understand the need to almost obsessively describe the clothing. It seemed the author wanted to portray a sense of decadence in the court (understandably) and show the main character as having an interest in clothing, but the book just mentioned clothing constantly. Yes it can make a statement, but there were so many scenes of the main character designing dresses...when nothing really came of it? She simply became a trendsetter, moving on. Apart from we didn't move on, because not once could her legs be mentioned without it specifying she's wearing pants. "he touched my pant-clad leg"/"my pant-clad legs" and details to that effect were mentioned again and again, even when her outfit was literally just mentioned and there was no need for further reiteration. A petty thing to point out, but it just seemed to drive you towards a belief that her clothing will be central to the plot somehow when it just...wasn't, really.The characters themselves I just didn't believe. Our leading lady walks about claiming she's dangerous and not one to cross, but it didn't really feel that way. Especially not when within the space of a page, she arrives at a new place and immediately makes friends with the first people who talk to her, claiming something along the lines of "well I'll need friends". That may be the case, but it isn't that easy and there was certainly no sign of that friendship growing at all. They were just claimed and that was that. The uneasiness supposedly surrounding the Shadow King didn't feel legit. The threat surrounding him didn't feel dangerous at all. The main's father and sister were just awful for no good reason, her father's reasonings behind the attempts to pull her away from the court just didn't make sense. There was a random Robin-Hood sideline story that popped up out of nowhere?? I am just...confused. So very confused at what this story was trying to do. And the final straw, so to speak, was the plot twist. It was ridiculous. It made no sense. Literally didn't understand how that could happen and the reasoning behind it was so unsubstantial I just blinked. I don't want to sound this harsh but I just...no. I couldn't do it.Sadly this book just flopped for me, in every way possible. I know many people enjoy it and for what it's worth, I will say it's a quick and easy read. Probably nice if you want something fun but kind of dark? But unfortunately it's a no from me.