The perfect couple, matched in viciousness and skill. The perfect story. “Alessandra Stathos, that’s positively despicable.” He says the words like they’re the highest compliment he can give me. “You are an absolute gem, do you know that?"This book really showed me just how much our first impression of anyone influences how we react to their actions in any given situation. Alessandra, introduced as a vicious, scheming woman with no loyalties, but, honestly, captivating in her intelligence, held my suspicion for so long, nearly forgetting that she too must have feelings, a reason deep down for why she needs to be so in control of everything around her and her expressing it in the only way she could. The whole book really holds your attention because of how much thought Alexandra puts into every move she makes and the outcomes and vivid and astounding. Some time revealing her plans quickly and sometimes holding onto her secrets to the very end she keeps the readers on their feet. Her own plots surrounded by the bigger plot of the king’s possible murder weave in and out of each other throughtout the book and overlap seamlessly, even when they begin to diverge. It’s a marvel how the twists in the story would appear out of nowhere, and it doesn’t even happen when everything is quite as if in the calm before the storm, it happens amidst the chaos of everything else happening as there isn’t a moment in the book where everything is truly settles, every single page is full of tension and the apprehension of what comes next.I wouldn’t say character development is a big part of the story because no one really changes over the course of the story, it’s more like new facets of their character are revealed as the circumstances change and as they interact with different people. Alessandra and the King don’t change their personalities for each other, no one becomes uncharacteristically docile and cliche, and that’s what makes them so perfect for each other, they never had to change to become a perfect fit.The entire book was written eloquently and the characters are portrayed beautifully. Tricia Levenseller exploits every situation wonderfully to highlight every character's personality. Every interaction between characters conveys who they are very well, while contributing to the underlying plot. I loved every part of this book and would definitely recommend if you’re looking for drama and plot twists. The fantasy part plays a good part in the role but I wouldn’t say it defines the book, so don’t expect a high fantasy world type narration with magic at the centre."Who in the world would steal and then not keep the riches for themselves? That’s just bad business."