That’s the point. When a man sees something that several other men want, he can’t help but want it, too.Is that so?The Shadows Between Us proved to me once again why I don't rely on Booktok for book recommendations. I take these books as overhyped, and I noticed the pattern it follows is that it relies on recommending very hyped books only. Seriously, the amount of Tik Tok's I have seen with this book made me wonder even more if readers truly enjoy these books or if they're just trying to hop on the bandwagon . . .The premise of The Shadows Between Us is hardly ever new. Yet, it can still be delivered in its own unique and refreshing way. The problem is that it completely misdelivered it all, unable to execute its own performance and therefore stumble upon the rabbit hole of 'boring'. I wondered how long it would take me to grow tired of the book after really enjoying the first 20 pages, but it wasn't long until my expectations of this book were thrown away. Seriously, how do you start off a book THAT good and let it fall like that?The Shadows Between Us follows Alessandra who is tired of not being noticed. To change this, she plans on accomplishing three things: Woo the Shadow King, marry him, and then kill him, taking over the six kingdoms he rules in order to have power, be remembered, and have a strong reputation. But of course, things never go as planned. She isn't the only one with an intention of murdering him, and as she becomes closer to him, Alessandra finds herself having difficulty processing her feelings for the Shadow King.Unique plot? No. New? Definitely not. Did it have the chance to become its own and unique deliverance? Absolutely. Did it do so? Hell no.There are 3 things about this book I did not like that everyone else seemed to love, and I think these 3 things just capture everything else as well.⚠️I mention some things that may or may not be considered as spoilers. Read at your own risk.Let's start with the beginning.(1) Slytherin romance. This is described as a Slytherin romance from the beginning. The author's dedication is literally that. Was it just that? Sorry to disappoint, but it was not. There were a couple things that bothered me about this so-called enemies to lovers. First, where exactly is the enemies? I feel like I need to say this to get it out of the way. Alessandra and Kallias were never actually enemies. Kallias is actually Alessandra's friend (there's more information on how that happens but I won't dive into it too much), and Alessandra (at first) pretends to go along with it, especially because it helps her with her reputation as being courted by the Shadow King. See, everyone is wondering and curious as to how she was approached by him because the Shadow King is very isolated. He does not touch anyone, cannot touch anyone, due to his shadows (again, there is more backstory about this but I don't want to give too much away). So when the two appear to be friends and hang out, it is a wonder to everyone how it happened.I expected this to be actual enemies to lovers: starting off with pure hatred for each other, trying to kill each other and take each other down. The yearning and angst between the two rivals start developing in the middle of the pages (not the beginning, because we know we don't like that kind of enemies to lovers). But it was nothing like that. As mentioned, Kallias considers Alessandra his friend. While Alessandra's goal is to kill the king, she first has to woo him and then marry him (which she accomplishes, sort of), but my biggest problem is how Alessandra never actually attempted to kill Kallias. There was never a scene where she tried to kill him, whether it be poison, hiring someone, lying to him, etc. While there was something she had with him to accomplish this, it was never actually done, nor was there ever an attempt. I am not saying that Slytherin's are incapable of showing love and warmth. I am not saying they cannot show and have development. What I am saying is that I felt as if the whole "evilness" was never even there to begin with.Also, this is described as a villain x villain romance, but here is another problem I found. Kallias is such a lonely heartthrob. I felt him to be nothing of what a villain is.He was isolated and lonely (for reasons) and was unable to always communicate with Alessandra, but his feelings were clearly there for her. I appreciated the author for allowing the reader to see more of Kallias and how he reacts, such as how he got nervous at times when he was talking to Alessandra, or how he was expressing his emotions. He tried his hardest to be there for Alessandra, and when he couldn't, he tried making up for his loss with gifts. Although it's clear he doesn't know how to approach Alessandra, I still appreciated how vulnerable and soft he was. And I mean, he's the king of six kingdoms, of course he's going to take over land and be selfish, but I expected him to be more than he was. Booktok just made him seem like this broody and mysterious villain but I thought he was just a generic YA love interest.Kallias reaches into a pocket of his dress pants and pulls out a folded parchment. “I wrote it on paper.” He opens it, looks at the words, and shakes his head. “I can’t read it aloud. It’s for you to read. Later. Really, I just wanted to prove I could write a better one than Eliades. But I’ll leave it here and go.”With that being said, the romance also felt so bland. There was no chemistry, not until the end. Not that it felt forced, but it also didn't feel real. It got to the point where I felt Alessandra more connected with Leandros, and that also bothered me. Seriously, when will YA authors stop bringing in another male lead to interfere with the female lead and the male lead's relationship? It gets annoying and frustrating.I felt as if communication lacked between them. Alessandra found it rude and couldn't stand the fact that Kallias (who is King, need I remind you) couldn't spend time with her, such as taking walks with her, holding her hand, telling each other secrets, etc. It wasn't until she confronted him about this that he somehow managed to reflect on it to the point where his schedule was no longer a conflict between them. Somehow, this happened.(2) Alessandra. I think the author tried too hard making Alessandra just the type of character we wish she was: unapologetic, confident, strong, and bold. But you know what went wrong? Exactly that. Alessandra is actually your typical YA female snowflake. There is nothing new and unique about her. She is a replica of other female leads, a cliche, an unoriginal. She is confident in knowing she's beautiful, but what is too much confidence? Alessandra knows she's beautiful, and she uses that as her advantage to woo other men. She knows men will be trying to court her and approach her. She knows she has a curves and a beautiful body that men will want. She knows all this. Sound familiar? Her personality reminded me of Eadlyn from The Selection series and how she kept mentioning her plan on taking over the throne. She wasn't even close to The Shadow King, and she was already telling us (for like, the 20th time, that the kingdom would soon be hers, so she might as well get started on acting like their queen).No one but me is allowed to decide when Kallias Maheras, king of six realms and counting, is going to die.Okay, so when then?But my biggest problem lies in how unoriginal Alessandra is. She's first introduced as vicious, a murderer already, and this is something I would have loved to continue seeing. Unfortunately, when her plan of killing the king starts, everything changes as well. She finds herself turning soft towards him (nothing wrong with this, but girly had already been stricken from his features since the beginning, because, ahem, he is also very handsome, aka your typical YA male king). The only good thing I liked about her was her sex positivity, but even this took an unexpected turn. For example, when Myron threatened her with exposing who she was (in terms of sexually active, that is), I thought she would not take shit from it. I thought she would be positive and unshameful about it, but she was . . . scared. I get it, it's normal, but why are you going to make a character like her be the way she is and suddenly become scared for being sexually active?Another problem is how overly confident she was. Look, I love confident characters. We love to see it! But Alessandra was no exception to what the YA world offers. She KNOWS she is beautiful. But then what happens? Girly starts getting insecure and wonders why men aren't approaching her. She finds it really surprising, because who could ever ignore THE Alessandra Stathos, right? My blouse laces up the front in a fashion similar to a corset. It will be highly scandalous, and I suspect none of the men at court will be able to keep their eyes off me.Though somewhat irritated by the rejection, I remain undaunted and try to catch another’s gaze. I find a broad-shouldered blond with a handsome mustache and give him a coy smile. He returns the greeting enthusiastically and turns away from me. What the hell?I think to start welcoming my guests, but as I take a few steps in one direction, the partygoers … scatter. What the devils? Perhaps I’ve only imagined it? I head for the refreshment table, thinking to check on the food arrangements. Skirts sway from my path, and a group of gentlemen cut off their conversation midsentence to turn away from me and find somewhere else to stand. What is the matter with everyone?Yawn.Not only that, but she is also so offended when Kallias tells her she isn't beautiful enough to tempt him. She was so upset that she got really angry. I understand WHY you would be upset, but where is the confidence? Where is the "I don't care" attitude? Where is the "Your opinion is irrelevant" mind-set??? Just look at this:I fume as I walk back to my rooms. Not beautiful enough to tempt him, am I? We’ll see about that. I’m going to make him fall so in love with me, he’ll forget he ever saw another woman. He will be begging for me by the time I’m done with him. And then he’ll beg for his life right before I end him.*laughter arises*In my opinion, Alessandra is also not strong. She literally volunteers to fight in a boxing match because "what is important is observation" so she feels like she can take this other female boxer down. While she is able to throw a punch at her in the beginning, not much time passes after when she's knocked out. She also gets a bruise. She doesn't care, and kind of takes it as if it was funny, but we know she's hurting deep down. Some may find this to be strong of her (that's cool), but I just laughed at her and felt second hand embarrassment. My ambition. My cunning. My achievements. The guards heeding my commands are proof enough of what I’ve been trying to explain to my father for weeks. I have achieved exactly what I set out to do.But did you actually?(3) The plot. It had so much potential, yet was completely downgraded. I'm just so surprised at how the author managed to capture my full attention at the beginning (seriously, if I had to rate the beginning only, I would give it 5 stars.) Starting off with Alessandra killing Hektor and seeing her take no from her Father, telling him what she will do, was amazing. The problem is how little develops after that. As I mentioned before, Alessandra becomes a softie, and she never actually attempts to kill Kallias. She just thinks about it, over and over again, telling herself her plan may not work because "this is getting in the way" and "I need to do this" and "I need to take care of that" and "this is also my responsibility" and just so much other bullshit.Seriously, the marketing of this book is spot on. It literally mentioned the "touch her and I'll kill you" trope, yet that happened ONLY ONCE!!! I'm just so furious about it being called an enemies to lovers. While I understand why and how, there is none of that angst and forbidden love many of us love to read about. I see it more as a friends to lovers. Even though Alessandra only pretended, she still found herself enjoying his presence and learning more about it. I don't know, it's a tricky situation. While I may not find the book or plot complex, I think the relationship is. Nonetheless, it was not done in the way I thought it would. All in all, this is your reminder to just approach books with enough caution and expectations necessary, but not too much of both. This is also my reminder to not trust platforms too much for my next read.