Ah, those sample chapters. Allowing me to finish the book so quickly 🤣 This is the final book of Mistborn Era 2, or the 7th Mistborn book so far. As such, there's a lot I can't say due to spoilers - but this was a mostly satisfying conclusion to the Wax & Wayne era, with plenty of tidbits to get people excited for further Cosmere as well as specifically Mistborn Era 3. What I can say about TLM is that it's my favorite of the Era 2 books, and my third favorite overall after HoA and TFE. There are a lot of excellent scenes in this book, for all types of fans - Era 1 fans, Era 2 fans, Cosmere enthusiasts. Some of the character moments in this book are very touching or cool, although I felt like Sanderson tried too hard to make people speak their life lessons into dialogue a bit too blatantly. The action was also really entertaining, and this is something that hasn't worked for me in Era 2 as well. The plot of this one is probably my second favorite after Shadows of Self, I was consistently engaged. Regarding Cosmere Easter eggs...there are loads! I don't think you *need* to have read anything other than Mistborn, but it's definitely the most Cosmere forward book so far. Some of the things in this book had me SO STOKED and I can't wait to talk about them. Where I think this book will really decide how it lands is on how you feel about Wayne. Wayne is a very conflicting character to me that I don't feel like Sando handles as well as he could balancing the humor and tragedy inherent in him. This is a very Wayne heavy book even from the beginning (Wayne childhood prologue) and some of the best moments are Wayne moments, and my least favorite, groan worthy parts are also Wayne moments. I think all of the main cast of this subseries get a satisfying arc, Wayne included, but the balance of juvenile humor was tilted a bit too far for me ultimately. Era 1 fans get some *amazing* scenes, though. If you love the original trilogy and have delayed/found Era 2 lacking, I really think you should try to get to this one and you'll be rewarded. This will be really rewarding to reread, and I left TLM sad to see these characters go. 9/10