“What’s harder, love?” she asked. “Doing what’s right or doing what’s wrong?”“Doing what’s right.”“So who gets stronger?” Ma asked. “The fellow what does the easy thing, or what does the hard thing?”“The Lost Metal” is the fourth and final book in the Mistborn: Wax and Wayne series, best known as Era 2 of the Mistborn Saga. This was a blockbuster. This book was a sanderlanche from beginning to end with surprises left and right and what an ending.Six years have passed since the events of “The Bands of Mourning” and Waxillium Ladrian has laid down his coat and gun to take up the pen. Now Senator, he spends most of his time fighting off laws that threaten war between Elendel and the Outer cities as well as trying to prevent another war between the Basin and the Malwish in the South. Steris, now Lady Ladrian, uses her expertise in organisation to manage the household and find evidence and clues to aid the prevention of war.Marasi and Wayne have been partners for the past six years. As Steris and Wax deal with the politics, the two of them have been hunting down any leads to the activities of the Set. The people kidnapped in the first book have never been found and now stockpiles of weapons have been found that threaten to add fire to the tensions between Elendel and the Outer cities.When Wax discovers a potential nuclear disaster in the making, he must once more take up the mantle of Harmony’s sword to fight the battles He can’t. Steris is left as the head of House Ladrian and must overcome her perceived ‘weaknesses’ and aid Elendel in its time of need. Marasi, who feels that she could be doing more, is recruited by a team of offworlders who know more but share less of what they understand of the god Trell, to aid in the protection of Scadrial. And while we’ve seen the characters develop: Wax and Marasi in the first three and Steris in the last book, this was the book dedicated to Wayne’s development.He sat staring at the door for a long time. He wasn’t wearing a hat, which meant he had to just be himself. The true him, the one that knew this pain. They’d ridden together on many a dusty path. This pain had been his invisible friend since childhood. The pain of knowing what he really was. The pain of being worthless.Wayne is not having a good time. He really isn’t and it was hard to read. Wayne has always been the comic relief. The one to ease the tension with a crude joke or something outrageously ridiculous. The one to mask his pain with a laugh. So reading him being depressed and forced to feel the pain he’s hidden for so long, made me tear up. He’s been my favourite character from the series, him and Steris, and reading him in pain had me in pain. He has people who love him surrounding him but he’s so used to hiding it away, he never brings it up and with the possible end of his city, there’s too much going on. Luckily, he has his family by his side.The relationships of this series are some of the best. A certain scene…“You can’t convict me on a hunch,” Wayne said, folding his arms. “I know my rights. Marasi’s always quoting them to people once we finish beating them up. I get a trial by my peers, I do.”“Yes,” Steris said, “but where would we find so many slugs on short notice?”Wayne spun toward her, then—after just a brief pause—grinned widely. Those two were getting along better these days, which Wax enjoyed seeing....had me so happy. These people have grown together so much. Wax and Steris as a couple, Marasi and Steris as sisters, Marasi and Wayne as partners, Wax and Marasi as friends, Wax and Wayne as brotherly best friends and now even Steris and Wayne get along. It just makes me so emotional. I love them all so much and I was so sad to be done with their story when I closed the book.Like I said, this was a Sanderlanche from beginning to end. The events literally take place in a day and it was the most exhausting day they’ve ever had. Also, forget Bands of Mourning, this is the most Cosmere aware book. This was an epic crossover with characters we’ve met from other books and worlds hopping in to save the fate of the planet. The number of times I gasped in surprise when I realised which character was being introduced. Epic. Epic from beginning to end. And some characters, especially one I can't say because spoilers,, are sus as hell, not Harmony though. I am a Harmony apologist through and through and I stand by Him lying to a certain character. Also, if you've finished the book, do you ever think about this?The Mistborn Saga is one of my favourite worlds and while I’m sad to be leaving another group behind, I’m excited to move to the next era. I’ve learned so much from this series. About love, about faith, about trust, about discovering one's self. I’m getting so emotional writing this but as Mama Wayne said:“You’re like the lawman then.”“Anyone can be,” she said, blowing out the lantern.“Even me?”“Especially you.” She kissed him on the forehead. “You are whatever you want to be, Wayne. You’re the wind. You’re the stars. You are all endless things.”