Finally! A YA paranormal romance that breaks the pattern! I was very concerned that the dark-haired mortal guy would lose to the light-and-shiny-haired supernatural guy. But he didn't. While the descriptions of Seth’s various piercings made me cringe (sorry, I’m just not into that), he is a wonderful character. Sweet, intelligent, loyal, patient, brave. (Okay, yes, he does have some wild history; but he’s put that aside for Aislinn, so kudos to him!) Aislinn doesn’t instantly fall for the supernatural guy and tries to hold onto her mortal existence and Seth--yay for her! I would've liked to have seen more about what helped her maintain her sanity for seventeen years when she can see the faery world but must pretend she can’t and has been relentlessly drilled on faery avoidance and shielded by her grandmother. But at least she's a good student, has friends and interests.Keenan, on the other hand, I didn’t like much. He is very much one of the fey, with the arrogance and sense of entitlement. There’s a bit of a sad, pathetic quality to him at times that kept him from being despicable; I did hope he’d get his act together and change for the better. He’s been playing the same game with his evil Winter Queen superbitch mother for 900 years, and he’s seemingly never tried to figure out any loopholes to unbind his Summer King power. It’s quite horrible how many girls Keenan has gone through in trying to find the one who will be his Summer Queen. Once he’s targeted someone, she loses her mortality whether she’s The One or not. The girls not brave enough to try their luck at becoming Summer Queen become Summer Girls, part of what’s essentially a faery harem; and the girls who do try but fail become the Winter Girl, tortured with cold and charged with trying to convince the next girls Keenan goes after to become Summer Girls. It’s twisted. Marr has created a faery world that overlaps a Pennsylvania town and is very dark and sinister. Faeries roam in invisible or “glamoured” visible forms and bother mortals; and they also torment and attack each other. Keenan’s pursuit of Aislinn is relentless and disturbing.But she resists. And gets help from Donia, the current Winter Girl--whom I like very much; she's very sympathetic and tries her best to help Aislinn, Seth, and Keenan. I liked that, in the end, love for Keenan or his love for the girl has nothing to do with who becomes Summer Queen. The bargain that Aislinn strikes is clever and benefits not only herself but others. BTW--I wouldn't recommend this series for readers under 15 years old.