4.25 stars, one of my favorite fictional characters are back! Welcome back Citra and Rowan! They’re tougher survivors and they are more connected to the Scythedom madness. Now it’s time to meet with fantastic AI Thunderhead! He is genuine, caring, polite but also righteous, smart, professional enough to achieve the requirements of his position.I think this is another delicious feast for me which I skipped to devour for so long and finally decide to taste vivid, exciting, adventurous tastes of books and take this serious into my hands! This is another full throttle, entertaining, heart throbbing ride and this time my heart so much faster than the I’ve read the first book. BABOOM! BABOOM! Already a bomb dismantle team arrived at our home! I told them hundred times that frightening voice was coming from my heart not from my husband’s stomach who tried to take a few bites from my dried, stony pasta particles (if you accidentally throw my pasta somebody’s head, they can give the person a quite effective concussion!) I think I’m honestly addicted to Scythedom and I’m so glad to read how it expands and develops itself and as the conflicts divide the sides and hostility shows itself significantly. Now the politics join into the equation thanks to Citra, she’s doing her best to achieve her new job title, improving herself more and getting more righteous, stronger and wiser character than her first book version which I loved it. But you may ask me why I didn’t give five stars if I enjoy this thrilling ride so much! First of all: I didn’t like to see Rowan and Citra’s storylines’ separation but it was necessary and impressively enjoying. So I don’t mind as long as their relationship is getting stronger. They still complete each other and are focused on their own different tasks. As Citra deals with the politics which requires so much brain power, tactical games and patience, seemed like white collar worker position, Rowan turns into a vigilante, a wild punisher to murder the scythes who chose the wrong side. I loved to see the mentally and psychically growing of these amazing characters and I love them more than ever. BUT…Why was this book sooooooo LOOOOOOOGGG? It still riveting page turner but I’m sure some parts can be edited and most of the action parts could be told in shorter depictions which help the book’s pace to fasten more so the readers didn’t need some small breaks and enjoyed their scary crazy train ride!And the other thing is our new introduced character Grayson. Sorry but I didn’t connect with him till the end of the book. I got the author’s intention to balance the characters’ improvement, Grayson’s role was crucial but it was hard for me to accept a brand new element to this already compelling and mind-bending equation. And I also had second thoughts about the parts of Tolliver’s story. It was okay but it also slows down the pacing. I wanted to skip the parts and saw what was gonna happen next!Of course ENDING DESERVED TOO MANY APPLAUSE, BRAVAS, CONFETTI RAINS AND MORE APPLAUSE! The author slams the book against our faces and says: “That’s how you write the sequel bitches! Any questions! I don’t think so!” I got my answer with this stunning, nail-biting, exciting ending and I’m more curious about the next book. I gotta have it ASAP! I’m wearing a cascade right now because I’ll hit my head to the wall as a punishment why I took my time so long to read those masterpieces. I think my real punishment was waiting too long and spending my time with wrong choices of books but after I finished this one, I started to see double. It would be side effect of the long pages or (my husband smiled so meaningfully when he served my wine glass, what if…oh no…he served me pineapple juice all the time and I was so focused my reading and I didn’t get the difference, yikes! So all night long, I was sober! Dammit!!!!)Okay, I’m all set for the third book! Bring it on! And of course traitor husband before starting my reading I'm coming for you!