Well, there’s one kind of food I’ll stay away from for a while after reading this book.“So I’ll be wed in the Church of the Holy Incestuous Mushroom?” she intoned. “I doubt that’s valid.”Mexican Gothic is set in a strange place - an old decrepit English manor house built by the English owners of the now-defunct silver mine, the English who despite living in Mexico for 70 years are dead-set on keeping everything in their small remote dreary domain as *English* as possible, down to the soil that the family patriarch brought with him from England to Mexico. In High Place it’s not really Mexico in the 1950s; it’s gloomy gothic claustrophobic Wuthering Heights-style Old World, complete with the creepy dying patriarch spouting eugenics while not ogling young ladies. The strange uptight and very creepy, once rich but now declining Doyle family inhabits the manor, the damp and moldy house where mushrooms might as well grow out of the walls.“Treasure troves from their vault, carefully placed in crates, just like the dark earth Howard had packed, so that they might reassemble the world where they’d reigned as masters.” This is now the family and the house of Noemí’s cousin Catalina who married Virgil Doyle, the heir to the Doyle’s diminished fortunes. And things are not fine with Catalina, based on the frantic and seemingly deranged letter she mails to her family back in Mexico City. And so, wary of possible madness/divorce scandal, Noemí - a heiress, socialite and inspiring anthropologist - is sent by her rich father to figure out what in the world is going on with her cousin.“Noemí, like any good socialite, shopped at the Palacio de Hierro, painted her lips with Elizabeth Arden lipstick, owned a couple of very fine furs, spoke English with remarkable ease, courtesy of the nuns at the Monserrat—a private school, of course—and was expected to devote her time to the twin pursuits of leisure and husband hunting.”Noemí Taboada is a practical and far from naive young woman, although certainly vain and self-absorbed. In the country where women wouldn’t be even able to vote for three more years, she relies on things she can control - her social status, her looks, her desirability. She hopes to advance her education, but can’t do it without her father’s permission - which hinges on her successfully solving the predicament of her cousin Catalina’s likely madness. And Noemí is also curious and very stubborn, and not too likely to unquestionably put up with Doyles’ stifling and conceited rule-abundant strict strangeness.“This house is sick with rot, stinks of decay, brims with every single evil and cruel sentiment. I have tried to hold on to my wits, to keep this foulness away but I cannot and I find myself losing track of time and thoughts. Please. Please. They are cruel and unkind and they will not let me go. I bar my door but still they come, they whisper at nights and I am so afraid of these restless dead, these ghosts, fleshless things.”Like any gothic novel worth its name, Mexican Gothic delivers a creepy haunted house, a remote isolated dreary location, a plucky heroine in danger, an old family full of dark secrets, the past that is buried not as deep as one would wish, a terrifyingly creepy lady running the dilapidated mansion, cemeteries and ghosts, disturbing dreams, a touch of unsettling eroticism (here quickly proceeding to sexual assault), and enough creepy galore to last for a while. Let’s just say that there are certain foods that I feel uneasy eating after finishing this book.“Noemí, just because there are no ghosts it doesn’t mean you can’t be haunted. Nor that you shouldn’t fear the haunting.”The haunted house mystery is done quite well. Well, maybe not as much the actual mystery part - there’s no reason why by at least the halfway point you wouldn’t figure out at least some of the reasons for all the strangeness in the house and the family - but certainly the atmosphere is captured perfectly. The suffocating damp gloom of the stuffy decrepit mansion, the moldy remains of former splendor, the rotting books and tarnished silver, the oppressive silence, the entire dreary existence of the corner of the world clinging on to colonialism and vestiges of power and perceived superiority over the people and their land. The dismissive attitude towards those thought of as “inferior” (“You are much darker than your cousin, Miss Taboada”, nastily observes Howard Doyle, and proceeds to inquire, “What are your thoughts on the intermingling of superior and inferior types?”). The increasingly vivid descriptions of the grotesque as we are getting closer and closer to the climax and resolution.“A body. That’s what they all were to them. The bodies of miners in the cemetery, the bodies of women who gave birth to their children, and the bodies of those children who were simply the fresh skin of the snake. And there on the bed lay the body that mattered. The father.” It gets quite sinister and not shy on the grotesque. It maintains the sense of unease throughout, feeling strange and haunted and surreal. It also smartly touches on the more “everyday” issues of exploitation, misogyny and eugenics, clashing the pseudo-Victorian sensibilities with more modern - although on their way to become antiquated as well - sensibilities.Mexican Gothic combines the classic feel of the gothic haunted house story with the refreshing modern take on it. It’s certainly entertaining and made me interested in checking out other works by Moreno-Garcia. Also, no mushrooms on my pizza, thank you very much. And now I’m off checking my walls for any traces of mold. 3.5 - 4 stars, rounding up.———————My Hugo and Nebula Awards Reading Project 2021: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...