Humans and Elves and Dwarves and Trolls. Oh, and Women.That's what parts of this book felt like. Like women are a different, lesser race. I think the way women are depicted in this book is problematic. To have a medieval world behaving in a medieval way about women is something, to have clever and heroic protagonists going along with it is something else entirely. I really don't have anything against a hero who has lots of sex with lots of women. As a guy, I get why this is appealing to a Fantasy author. But I need strong characters. I need some non-sexualized girls. This had too many bits about women being annoying in the background for me to feel confortable reading it. Too many bits about women speaking their mind and somehow coming out less likable for it. So much effort in that direction that it feels like the author himself thinks that women are second-rate people, only tolerable inside a bedroom or a kitchen. With race equality as a recurring theme throughout the book, this is really clumsy.And this was published in the 90's. It's always disappointing when this mentality shows up in an old fantasy book, but at least it's kind of predictable. It's like finding racism in a 19th century travel-adventure novel. But today... This should not be left unnoticed.Am I supposed to like Dandelion at this point ? Apparently, the author thinks being a dick is a lovable trait because he keeps coming up and I can't believe this guy was meant as a long lasting character. This is not a good Rogue, this is a living embodiment of everything I hate about Fantasy.And I am supposed to like Yennefer at all ? After research, I've read how Sapkowski brags about her not being a fantasy stereotype, which only confirms that he is only capable of writing either stupid-giggling-just-for-fantasy-sex-girls or cold condescending bitches (still up for sex mind you). Yennefer is the least likable female character I have ever found in Fantasy, and it is not because of unintentional sexism from my part. I don't understand in what world this character was meant as lovable. I genuinely thought that all the textual evidence was meant to foreshadow tragedy and how Geralt could only suffer with someone like this. It is now obvious that it was meant to be also part of the novels, and now I have too much info to really care about her or their relationship.Now about the storytelling itself, I have mixed feelings.I don't know about Polish, I read the English translation because the French one is crap (real real crap) and with now 3 different translations tested, I am pretty confident that the source material is far from great literature. The best I could get from this book was the Audible version. Peter Kenny did an amazing job with it, but even with David French's translation (which is the best I encountered so far), some bits were truly painful. It had some good chapters in the beginning, but this flirting with long-term plot got boring real fast. The long thoughts and dialogs during The Brokilon part were particularly clumsy, and The Beltane chapter with Yennefer might be one of the worst pieces of writing I have ever encountered in a success Fantasy novel, so bad you would think Terry Goodkind wrote it.Worst thing is, I really really loved Ciri, and I think she is everything this series needed. We'll see about that. It's a shame her chapters were so weak.I rated The Last Wish 3 stars because there's only so much plot you can expect from a short stories book, but now it is getting closer and closer to a novel, I really have doubts about Sapkowski's ability to keep these characters interesting.