(Review of 2 books: “The Last Wish” and “The Sword of Destiny)It’s been a while since I’ve indulged in some sword and sorcery, and I’m happy to have come upon a trailer of “The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt” on Youtube. It’s visually stunning and highly fascinating! I wanted to learn more about the game and, to cut this story short (I guess you know where this is going anyway), discovered Andrzej Sapkowski’s written wonders. I’m sure the games are awesome, but I’m quite glad that I can immerse myself in "The Witcher" universe through my preferred medium.“The Last Wish” and “The Sword of Destiny” are each a collection of short, inter-connected stories that read very much like a character study. A study of the witcher, Geralt of Rivia, and his tormented relationship with the concept of destiny. The stories are nonlinear, but the links are easy to follow, and not every story turns out the way you might think or expect.It's really hard for me to convey the depth of these collection of stories. They have a range of tone -- humor, romance, adventure, intrigue -- that is amazing. The writing is contemporary and yet has a resonance that feels timeless. It reminds me of Tolkien, in that there is a depth to the world Sapkowski has created that makes you feel like it's been around for a very long time. The books rank right up there amidst the fantasy genre as most immersive and entertaining. Sapkowski has an interesting way of setting up a story according to traditional fantasy and fairy tale fashion, then allowing the darkest facets of our own world bleed through the pages. Complicated questions about morality, religion, diversity, progress, and love are incorporated into the stories and the characters.I fell in love with Geralt and his story,and he never disappoints with his perspective or his choices. He is relatable in a way that he is not the hyper self-righteous paragon of justice like many fantasy protagonists. He's merely a tradesman, of an albeit interesting line of work, trying somewhat desperately to keep his head above water and do the right thing. There's something of us all in Geralt in that respect.I find the stories well written, suspenseful and engaging. The characters are diverse, colorful and relatable. One of the treasures of Sapkowski's style is how much of the plot is revealed through character interactions. Conversations flow naturally yet give all the necessary exposition and world building. The characters are interesting, believable and three dimensional no matter how small their role. The stories are at times bleak and grim, and yet there is an odd sense of whimsy like you might find in a classic Grimm's fairy tale. They can be comical or tragic but never contrived.Overall, these are highly satisfying reads and I would highly recommend this to anyone who has a penchant for tough and gritty heroes who slay monsters and protect even the dumbest jerks from themselves with wisdom, dry wit, swordplay and a grounded sense of realism. Now I'm doubly excited to move on to the main series!