2.5 starsThe first half wasn't that bad....Actually, mid-way through this book, I thought it was pretty good, and I was sure that this one was going to end up wrangling 4 or 5 stars out of me. Oh well, I've been wrong before. Several things happened that lowered my enjoyment level down to nothing, and they all happened toward the end. First, it's not like the pace in Rose Daughter was very fast to begin with, but I was dealing with it (admirably, I thought). You know how sometimes the beginning of a book drags and you can't get into it? Or in the middle of a story it sloooooows down to a crawl, and you just want to scream Get on with it already!? Well, in Rose Daughter it was the ending that...um, wouldn't end. I can't recall another book I've read where the pacing was like that. The ending was booooring. For example, there's the part when she goes back to find Beast and tell him she loves him, but she gets lost in the magical house (or whatever it is). It took forever to get her from point A to point B. And we hear about all of it. Every. Convoluted. Minute. What she tastes, what she smells, what she hears, what she feels, what she thinks, how many times she weeps, and (last but not least) what the people in the paintings are wearing. Pages and pages of it. Are there actual readers out there who care about that stuff?! There must be, otherwise McKinley wouldn't have sold such a boatload of books. On the upside, if you like to skim when you read, then this is the book for you! Never fear, Dear Reader, you won't miss out on some important detail, because none of it matters! Ok, even with such a slow pace, I probably wouldn't have rated it so low, but the ending creeped me out! Ugh! Awful! See, the Beast doesn't turn back into a human at the end. WTF?! Now I know there are some people out there going Oh, but looks aren't everything! I think it's sweet that Beauty loved him just the way he was!. No. It's skeevy and gross. They are not even the same species, people! Ewwwwwww!When I was seven years old and thought that being married meant that my BFF was a boy, it wouldn't have freaked me out to think about Beauty getting married to an actual Beast.Why? 'Cause I didn't know about sex yet, and I didn't know married people had it, that's why. So, as Beauty was stroking his giant hairy-ass paw at the end, and telling him how happy their marriage was going to be...urp.I feel dirty...and not in a good way.