The second of McKinley's Beauty and the Beast retellings.B&tB is a problematic story - arguably a Stockholm Syndrome romance - but there are other aspects of the story that also interest me, which are brought to the forefront when reading two retellings of the story by the same author. The similarities and differences, and the message we're supposed to take from the story.Love as a curse-breaker is the first core of this story, and for that you really have to sell the reasons this girl falls for the monstrous creature that threatened her father's life, and then every night asks her to marry him, but cannot explain why. I think Rose Daughter is weaker on this aspect: Beauty has only seven days to get to know the Beast, and spends only a very little time with him and he barely speaks during the climax of the story. Although his roof painting is a wonderful character moment, a lot of the romance appears to revolve around feeling very sorry for a very sad person. In the Beauty version of the story, we are given more interaction, and a shared interest in their love of reading that makes the romance more convincing.Family is the second major theme. Beauty in both stories is torn between love of her family and (eventually) her time with the Beast. The two sets of sisters are very different - both very loveable, though who can resist the set that includes Braveheart, roaring about, and getting a job as a stablehand. It's easy to read this dilemma as as straightforward allusion to any marriage, separating a girl from her family to go to her husband's house. That's a separation that happens often enough, without any intervention from curses or Beasts.One major different between McKinley's two retellings is the conclusion. In both stories we have the classic rich merchant falls on hard times, travels to country, encounter with Beast, sacrifice of Beauty, romance, separation, and reunion bringing the breaking of the curse. But Rose Daughter's curse-breaking leaves the Beast in the form of a Beast, and instead of Beauty and her family being brought to the now unenchanted palace, the Beast moves in to Beauty's cottage. This fits in with the difference in the sisters: wealth and the city were bad for the family at the heart of the tale. Beauty was retiring. Jewel-Tongue's words were viciously edged. Lionheart's courage edged into violence. The two elder sisters weren't nice people, and a plunge into desperate poverty is seen as the making of them. At the conclusion of the story Beauty is directly given a choice between wealth, power and a beautiful husband or a simple village life with a man still trapped in the form of the beast. [That last opens up whole reams of questions about their sex life and species of children and so forth...]It's a very very very common theme that wealth ruins people, but it never quite rings wholly true for me. 'Wealth' is freedom from drudgery and meaningless labour, is a chance to pursue matters artistic and intellectual - and it is tremendously convenient in Rose Daughter that Jewel-Tongue discovers a love and talent for sewing, and Lionheart becomes less of an ass when her pride has been knocked down - and Beauty's love of roses just happens in this world to be a highly profitable concern, rather than an indulgence in a garden that could be more usefully given over to vegetables.Of course, perhaps my view of power and wealth has been tempered by growing up without it.Even ignoring the choice between corrupting power and a "wholesome" country life, Rose Daughter is by far the more scattered of McKinley's two versions of B&tB. It interestingly includes its own "two versions of the same story", with the Squire's son producing a dismissive and misogynistic version of the history of the curse - this whole episode provides the reason for Beauty's urgent return and falls flat, feeling artificial as a means of bringing the plot to crisis point.There are some particularly delightful parts, however. McKinley builds a fascinating world thoroughly soaked in magic. I loved the frog tide, and really enjoyed Beauty's father bringing his horse into the palace with him for company.