This is a very delicate story. I truly appreciated the writing style and the hyperbolic characters, the novelty of integrated people of foreign birth as protagonists and all the little idiosyncrasies of this alternative Regency London society.I agree that the atmosphere, the presence of an association of thaumaturges, fairies and a crisis regarding English magic are reminiscent of Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell (I’ve not read the book, only watched the TV show). This said, while this story has its serious moments and themes, it’s overall on the comedy side and very likely to amuse the reader with Zacharias’ equanimity, Prunella’s impetuous originality and Mak Genggang’s disruptive guile.The worldbuilding and characterization are very loose, just enough to outline the situation and introduce the characters. Plot-wise there isn’t much, the story could be summarized in a brief paragraph but fortunately it swivels around totally absurd situations and crises; the very fact that the entire cast acts as if everything happening is perfectly logical and ordinary is a source of constant mirth.This book is also an exercise in style; the linear narrative makes use of a rich and delightful prose full of interesting words and phrases, never too complex. Definitely what I liked the most.Unfortunately, the book goes on and on about women’s (females) unsuitability to perform magic and how they must therefore suppress and conceal any magical talent. Only labor class women's craft can partially be overlooked since it may be of use to their betters. Lucky servants.Maybe it is a way to acquaint the reader with the key concepts needed to understand how the characters will interact, but still. Women learn to endure and dissimulate AND their worth is measured in the marriage market. I get it. Prunella is torn between ingrained beliefs and what may be within her power to achieve (she doesn’t waste time in sorting out her priorities, but she has her lapses).Then there is the protagonist, Zacharias, a man of exquisite manners who, in turn, has learnt to endure and dissimulate because he happens to be dark skinned (as his most liberal colleagues affably describe, “a most gentlemanlike fellow, leaving aside his colour”).Again the story goes on and on about the prejudices he faces, what it meant for a manumitted African boy to be adopted by English blueblood (named Whyte, no less) and the upper-class embarrassment at Zacharias’s role of prestige amongst the Unnatural Philosophers societal majority. I get it, he’s ostracised.I found the droning reminders annoying since remembering a few details is not that hard. I’m more drawn to a story which allows me to experience the characters, however little development there may be, rather than one which endeavours to shape my opinions and sympathies.This trait of the narrative holds true for the plot points and descriptions, too, leaving no room for the reader’s imagination. The ending result is akin to over-explaining and I think it’s not coincidental that I failed to connect with the whole story. Of course, it doesn’t help that there is not much going on, either.The saving grace is that the prose is beautiful and fits my idea of Britain's “ton” like a glove. You know, flowery speech, mannerly slander, prudish barbed remarks, fashionable witticisms…The Royal Society with its quirks and foibles has a prominent role in the novel, and I liked it very much, along with the lampoon secondary characters, the textbook English humour, the feeling of surrealism in the whole ordeal (the cork ploy was priceless) and Mak Genggang’s opinion on all of this.The general direction of the plot is clear since the outset and the clues about the upcoming revelations plain enough. Thankfully this predictability was not irksome because the book never aims at depth and it is consistent with the light spirit of the story. A pity though, the author could have capitalized better on the choice of protagonists not sporting the “proper” skin hue and of a setting where gender and census come amorally first behind a façade of liberal righteousness.As a consequence I found myself dividing my attention on evenings: read some more or watch an episode of Vikings? This never happens with books I truly like. I’ve also developed a slight case of the jitters at the word "female/s": it occurs 75 times, mainly with regard to those of the human species.It’s not that the novel lacks structure or interesting moments but its storytelling and slow-moving thin plot didn’t work well for me. It's occasionally fine when the characters are truly memorable or the worldbuilding unique but it’s not the case here: reading Sorcerer to The Crown felt like dining on a bland nouvelle cuisine entrée, pleasant and utterly forgettable.“The realities of government do not always permit the unobstructed application of principle”.