I picked up Sorcerer to the Crown because I heard it was strikingly reminiscent of one of my favourite fantasy books, the wonderful Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell by Suasana Clarke. Such a thing is this book’s greatest asset and also its downfall. Perhaps my rating of this would have been slightly higher had I read first. Though when reading all I saw was how the book had drawn from a much better book. Cho’s setting and world building are adequate, but again I was imagining them in relation to Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell. Both books deal with English magic during the time of the Napoleonic wars and the regency period. Magic is seen as improper in the stuffy society of the early nineteenth century; it is frowned upon and drastically misunderstood. Is it too similar?In Clarke’s novel Stephen is the black house-servant of Sir Walter Pole. He has descended from slaves, and though not part of the system, he is very much a second class citizen. Zacharias Wythe, from Cho’s novel, is a black sorcerer in a society that deems him inferior. I feel like Cho has essentially read Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell and asked herself a question: what would happen if Stephen was also a magician? And this is the book that answers the situation. An African sorcerer is at the head of the English magic society in an all too familiar world.Cho attempts to write in dated prose; she attempts to infuse modern prose with that of Austen. Clarke did the same with an absolute brilliant level of execution. She even produced a typical three-volume novel to add to this effect. Cho’s attempt is sloppy with distinctively modern words and phrasing being set against older expressions. The result is uneven writing that dances between being accessible to younger readers and being a pastiche. All in all, it just was not written with the same level of skill and attention to detail that Clarke displayed. Clarke is just SO much better!Sorcerer to the Crown certainly isn’t a terrible book, but for me it will always exist in the shadow of a much greater book: one that I wanted to stop reading this one for. The parallels are far too strong. Perhaps all this is merely coincidental and the writers just had similar ideas for the setting of a novel, though even so Clarke handles her book with more skill. Her characters are charming and very complex individuals. I love the way she based her two magicians on Wordsworth and Coleridge with magic replacing the arguments they had over poetry. If you have read Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell then you will possibly hate this for its bland attempt at similar ideas. However, if you have not read it, you may find some enjoyment here.