I was trying to think of what was wrong with this book and the only thing I could come up with is that is too wishy-washy. When all the details, from the magic rules to the setting to the time to the characterisation, are as so vague it's impossible to get invested in a book.First up, the positives. The imagery was pretty and impressive. The first third or so of the book had all these cool paper things coming to life and it was so nice. It had a similar quality to The Night Circus. It had the guts of a good concept and I was intrigued at first. Um, that's all I've got. The rest sucked.First of all, when was this book set? Someone please tell me because the text sure didn't make it clear. It seemed to be some alternate version of London in the early part of the last century. Plastic's been available for thirty years. They ride in buggies. They dress in older. idek. Culturally, other than a mention of the Thames, it didn't resembled any London I'm familiar with. Makeup was only recently popular, too. The main character was bratty and then silly and then just blah. You can tell the author was really trying to make her independent and strong. That was cool, I guess. She was always cooking for the guy. Like at least fifty meals were described. At least forty nine of them didn't fit with what people of their apparent class/background would be eating in the past. Rice and pasta and even sausage gravy and biscuits (!!) were not on the menu then. She was meant to be an apprentice but she spent more time doing her boss/future love interests laundry and cooking. yay! feminism! The romance here represented a particular kind of relationship that you see a lot in certain books and I was super uncomfortable with it. So, she was only 19 and she developed a crush on her boss/master. It seemed to be her first time even spending time with a guy tbh. As the book progresses, they fall in love in about two days, she still cooks and cleans, risks her life to save him from his evil ex wife, and sees a vision where they will grow old together and have kids. Oh, we also find out he saw her working at an event when she was much younger and decided to fund her magic education. So every aspect of her life revolves around him. I mean, that's just so creepy and paternalistic and ugh. The plot was lame. The rescue wasn't nearly as exciting as you would think. it involved literally wandering around his stolen heart. yeahI guess this is meant to be a YA book. Even though the main characters are 19 and 30ish. It reads young and not in a good way. Honestly, it was kind of insulting.