❀ 5 stars ❀“A flaw of humanity,” said Parisa, shrugging. “The compulsion to be unique, which is at war with the desire to belong to a single identifiable sameness.”A secret society chooses the six most powerful magicians to join them, but only five of them will be initiated. This masterpiece made my question my entire existence. Full of secrets, philosophical dialogue, and intense interactions; this book is dark academia at its finest. It is definitely one of those books that you have to read more than once to fully grasp its meaning. Reading this was a very intense and fulfilling experience, and I fear that this review will not be well written enough to make this book justice!WritingThe author captivated me with each word; the writing was absolutely beautiful and genius. I know that this style might not be everyone’s favorite; in fact, some might get bored or tired to reading through the characters’ streams of consciousness. But personally, to look inside each of their minds and understand their thoughts and actions as individuals was very intriguing, even though they couldn’t be more different from each other. The writing was very philosophical, full of remarkable quotes that made me feel so seen and understood. The one thing I would like to see in the next book is more descriptions. Even though I do not care about them most of the time (because authors tend to go overboard), I wasn’t really able to figure out the setting from the writing, I just imagined everything according to common dark academia vibes. I feel like the character’s physical descriptions were slightly described but didn’t get into much detail. For example, lacking details about their mannerisms while speaking, or about their hair or eye color. However, their personalities and cultural backgrounds were detailed, and I would love to read more about that in the next book.PlotI felt the plot was minimal and simple, but not in a bad way. In this book, the phrase “less is more” definitely applies to the plot. If you were to ask me what the plot is I would just say “the interactions and conversations of six characters living in a house together for a year, and then a twist at the end where not everything is like it seems”. To be honest, I was expecting more action scenes, a training trope for example, but there were only like two or three (not that I’m complaining). This was more dark academia than fantasy, despite their magical powers. The twist at the end was amazing, I saw it coming but it still surprised me. CharactersThis is an extremely character-driven read, which is my favorite type of book. Nothing makes my heart happier than well developed characters forming connections which each other. They all felt so real and raw, and I absolutely loved them all (yes including Callum unfortunately). They all are immensely intelligent, and the academic in me was very satisfied. Libby, one of three whose power consists of manipulating physical elements, was the one I related to the most. She was sensitive, curious, extremely smart and outspoken. Nico, with powers like Libby’s, was mysterious, witty and cocky. I would love to know more about the extent of his skills, especially the shape-shifting. Reina, the last of the trio of physical powers, was very intriguing. I felt like we didn’t get to see her whole personality, she was very quiet in a menacing way, like she has more fire inside of her just waiting to come out. The characters with mental abilities are the most intense ones. Parisa was a badass, mind reading is one of my favorites and I loved that we got to see some depth to her powers. The whole illusion scene with Callum was so powerful that it destroyed me. Callum, the empath that can control emotions, incites anger in me; but reading his scenes with Tristan made me understand him a bit. Tristan can see through illusions, and even though he’s not my favorite, there’s something about him as having the most underrated power that makes me have a soft spot for him.RatingI gave this book 5 stars because it had everything I want to read. As always, the most important part is the emotional connection I felt reading this. All the characters had depth and very well written complex personalities that made them very real. And the beautiful writing full of memorable quotes makes me just want to read it all over again to appreciate it more. Reading this was overwhelming in the best way.