I never feel more Me than when I have an unpopular opinion on a beloved bestseller.It's how I made my millions in the first place - and by millions, I mean "tricked people into paying attention to me, only to trap them in a vicious content-creation cycle of semi-funny reviews and a lot more lit fic about annoying women than originally planned."So sometimes, I like to return to my roots, and pick up whatever young adult fantasy behemoth starring a green-eyed and/or British and/or misunderstood assholey teen boy is stealing the hearts of the public.I didn't intend to dislike this one, though. I promise. First of all, it's not even YA, and secondly, it's DARK ACADEMIA. I pray at the altar of Donna Tartt. I gamely agreed to pretend its annoying copycat little sibling was in the same hemisphere. I have a countdown to the Ninth House sequel tattooed on my lower back.And yes, as it turns out, tattoos are not a good countdown strategy. You live and learn.But this...Guys, this wasn't good.And I waited for the alleged "good version." I wanted to read this back when the self-pub original was the only one available, and yet I took the time to allow Tor to edit the ever-living bejesus out of it.But here we are even still.As this progressed I could not believe how much of it was conversations between a different duo. Just this guy and this guy. This girl and this guy (who are sleeping together). This girl and this guy (who might want to sleep together? And did once I think?) This guy and this guy (who have kind of a sexual tension as well). This girl and this guy (who are constantly "engaging in enemies to lovers banter," except the banter in question is two annoying high-school-theater-kid brats shrieking I HATE YOU at each other and if I am not even rewarded with an enemies to lovers arc, I am DNFing this series with so much personal anguish it will cause a ripple effect in global politics).In other words, I kept waiting for the plot to happen, and yet as I noted down at increasing intervals - 28%, 42%, 54%, 66% - IT NEVER ARRIVED.On top of that, I hated the writing so much it ruined my other current reads (of which there were approximately 11 - I was in one of those I'M GOING TO LIVE FOREVER anti-slumps wherein all you can do is read). It's the kind of goofy faux-intellectual pretentious drivel - to speak honestly, and don't yell at me for simply stating my truth like the non-sinner I am - that makes me lose my mind.For some reason I feel like I'll end up reading the sequel. But that's probably the past version of me who made her name in unpopular opinions talking.Bottom line: What were you guys even talking about!------------currently-reading updatesneed dark academia injected into my veins rn------------reading books by asian authors for aapi month!book 1: kim jiyoung, born 1982book 2: siren queenbook 3: the heart principlebook 4: n.p.book 5: the holebook 6: set on youbook 7: disorientationbook 8: paradebook 9: if i had your facebook 10: joan is okaybook 11: strange weather in tokyobook 12: sarong party girlsbook 13: the wind-up bird chroniclebook 14: portrait of a thiefbook 15: sophie go's lonely hearts clubbook 16: chemistrybook 17: heavenbook 18: the atlas six------------------------i can't stop thinking about this book and i haven't even read it yet