Final Rating: 4.25/5 “I only know that without you, no rank or fame would be worth having.”***“As long as I can be with you”Well, this one outright slaughtered me (and healed me again). But in the end, I will talk about mostly about good and the bad, as it is the end of a series.Let's start with good things:► This is a character driven story. There is a lot of focus on characters and their surrounding families, royalty, other heralds and companions. A lot of in fact. Which is very much appreciated as all of them were done nicely.► The romance was very, very good and believable and i enjoyed every second of it. They were too adorkable. Really.► Introduction of Stefen. He's adorable, wonderful, kind and actually listens. And he's a red headed character, so i knew i would fall in love with him too. ► That ending epilogue. That made me cry so hard and laugh as well from happiness. ► Interesting plot twists.► In the end, a lot of character development► my heart is broken, thanks a lot Mercedes Lackey!And then with the bad things:► Sometimes I wondered if it was a good thing to start with this one first, as I skipped a lot of books (or so it seems) to read this trilogy. Yes, it functions as stand alone, which is wonderful, but the biggest question i was left with is Karse war. Something that is probably connected to all the other series if you read them in chronological order. ► The fact that the main story started happening around 70% of the book, until which they were busy dealing with all the other characters; but things were moving pretty damn fast for the last 30%Something that I believe I should do as a heads up to anyone who has age difference problems: they are 16 or so apart, for which there is actually a good explanation. And i didn't mind it a bit, because what they had was there for a reason, and it made both of them happy ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ .►►►	 STORY & CHARACTERS:Five years later after the events of the previous books, king Randale is getting sicker by the moment, and the only help comes in the form of Bard called Stefen, who has a Gift to literally sing away the pain.Which introduces Van to Stefen, of course. Van's nephew, Medren - also Stefen's best friend - is quite desperate to help his uncle find actual happiness, considering Stefen has been crushing on him for years, apparently. If he’d been the marble statue he resembled, his isolation would likely have been a good thing.But he wasn’t. He was a living human being, and one who would not admit that he was desperately lonely.To the lowest hells with that. If he doesn’t find somebody he can at least talk to besides Savil, he’s going to go mad in white linen one of these days. He’s keeping everyone else sane, but who can he go to?Nobody, that’s who. Medren gritted his teeth. Well, we’ll see about that, uncle. If you can resist Stef, you’re a candidate for the Order of Saint Thiera the Immaculate.And Van, after everything that happened, and all the threats that are incoming, is horribly afraid of being in relationship with anyone, because that someone could very well be used against him.Vanyel was as beautiful as a statue carved from the finest alabaster by the hand of a master. But thanks to that absolute control, he was also about as remote and chill as that same statue.Which is the way he wants it, Medren sighed. Or at least, that’s what he says. “I can’t afford hostages,” he says. “I can’t let anyone close enough to be used against me.” He doesn’t even like having people know that he and I are as friendly as we are—and we’re related. He thinks it makes me a target. . . . And then, after a while, they get invited back to Van's family and then a series of events start again, leading to conclusions - especially with discovery of the actual meaning of Van's nightmares.Stefen is in fact, a highly adorable person, that comes from a very shady background that could have turned quite into a tragic if Bard Lynnell didn't actually kidnap him from the streets (all the while traumatizing him thinking she was going to sell him to someone, until they cleared that up), and put him into Heaven under the guidance of Medren. He is so far, my actual favorite in the whole book, thanks. That’s my only hope; court favor. And it’s a damned good thing Medren kept me from losing it before I even had a chance at it. Being a Bard is better than being a beggar, but it’s still a risky profession to be in, with no real security. A Healer can always rely on the Temple to care for him if something happens to him, and if a Herald ends up hurt or ill—Havens, most of them end up dead—there are always places for them here, at the Palace. But a Bard has only himself to rely on. If he loses his voice, or the use of his hands. . . .The harsh reality was that Stefen had come from the streets, and if something happened to him, the streets were likely where he’d end. Unless he built himself some kind of secure future.Otherwise—No. He got up, and stared for a moment out his window, at the Palace, the heart of all his hopes. No. I’ll do it. I’ll make my own luck. I swear I won’t go back to that. I won’t end up like Berte.Meanwhile, we also see Jisa and her beloved; and the conclusion they deserve. More of Savil and the other few herald mages left. Overall, there was a lot about side characters that I appreciated a lot. And Yfendes. Oh Yfendes, the best of them all... “You’re beautiful today, love,” he said aloud.:Huh.: She snorted, and shook his hands off. :You say that every day.: But he could tell by the way she arched her neck that she was pleased.:That’s because you are beautiful every day,: he replied.:Flatterer.: she said, tossing her silver waterfall of a mane.►►►	 ACTUAL SPOILERS AND OPINIONS: First. I don't like how I didn't understand what happened in the end with Karse war??????Secondly, I was so devastated with Savil'sdeath, because not only Van did not heed the warning, he actually knew inside that someone was killing people around him, and yet, in a fatal mistake, he got it wrong and almost became an incarnation of Tylendel's revenge course.Which he almost did, considering how it all started, with Stefen taking his role.Finally, at least the ending was what i expected. Even though i knew it would end with Van's death, I was devastated that it just went straight into aftermath, after Van's last act of defiance.But to me, it seems that Van's decision came easier to him once he realized that Stef was Lendel's reincarnation, and that gave him hope: if he came back to him, and they lifebonded twice, then it would be possible to be together again.And they did. I can't believe it, but there is actually happy ending to all of this mess. Being ghosts, having fun in a forest and traumatizing people is definitely the happy ending they deserve. (Except Stef had to face 60 years of loneliness to get there, but....►►►	 OVERALL:My heart hurts, I'm in pain and I'm satisfied. At least i have decided that I actually WANT to read the rest of Valdemar series, especially since I know for certain that two fools appear in some of the sequels :D“Bards are supposed to be so cursed good with words,” Stefen said unhappily, looking into Vanyel’s eyes as if he was looking for answers. “Well, all my eloquence seems to have deserted me. All—all I can tell you is that I think I’d love you if you were a hundred years older than me, or a deformed monster, or—or even a woman.” ►►►	 OTHER IMPORTANT INFO:⚠ TYPE OF SERIES: series⚠ Point of View:third, multiply⚠ Cliffhanger: no⚠ Triggers: torture, rape: in fact, it was gang rape and you know exactly what happened, what happened to the victim, the aftermath of the said rape, even if it was not explicit in it.⚠ Love triangle: no⚠ Angst: 50%⚠ Supernatural: the usual, mages. ⚠ Explicit content: no⚠ Note: be still my heart►►► REVIEW(S) RELATED TO THIS BOOK:◈  Magic's Pawn (Valdemar: Last Herald-Mage #1)  ◈  Magic's Promise (Valdemar: Last Herald-Mage #2) ◈ Magic's Price (Valdemar: Last Herald-Mage #3)