Non Spoilers:This was an average book. I get why so many people love it, but it honestly doesn't live up to the hype. A few things I continually noticed was:Why is everyone white, straight, and perfect? There is literally no flaws on anyone. They look perfect, and all fit the hypothetically perfect world of Shitler (my nickname for Hitler). It also made me uncomfortable that the gnomes had dark skin and were always working. I felt like it was uneeded, and could bring up some drama about the author. Now, looking to white, cis, straight people for representation isn't ideal, but they should include it. How hard would it be to make Keefe black, or Dex gay(which he totally is)? This is a major problem in this book.Why does she pull out an eyelash? That's weird. I hate the word cooed, and it popped up multiple times. Sophie is "not like other girls." She like, the poster child for them. Tris Prior has her tattoo. America singer has her shirt.The writing style, especially at first, was so weird! The beginning, like the entire first half, was so bad and rocky. I hated it at first. The insults were so lame and juvenile. I cringed so much.Now, don't be disappointed my little KOTLC cult. You haven't read the entire review yet. I liked Keefe. LOVED Keefe. I'll just be ranting about how awesome he is in his character analysis.Edeline and Grady ❤❤❤❤❤ I love them so much! I liked this enough to continue with the series. I'm on the second book.I couldn't tell who Sofie would end up with. I really hope it's not Fitz. Really, really hope. I don't ship them at all.If you like:-Solid side characters-Good world buliding-Found FamilyThen read this book!Spoilers:Sophie Character Analysis:I have mixed feelings. First the things I didn't like about her.Again she not like other girls. It's talked about outright so much, it hurts. Stop it. We get it. Your very speshul. There was a slight amount of girl hate vibes, but it was really just the classic girl-you-dont-like-in-middle-school-that-you-hate-until-you're-forty so I guess I can excuse that.Sophie follows the popular trope of "I was a "normal" person, until I found this out." But it wasn't executed very well. Whenever I read a middle grade series, I get so exited, because the MCs are usually so good! I was sorely mistaken. She's not bad. But not very good either. I liked her near the end because of her character development. She was a wimpy girl, and the only thing she could bring to the table was her weird powers. Now she kicks but. So, I respect her.But stop with the eyelash pulling.Dex Character Analysis:Dex is a rantish, sweet, loyal bean who must be protected. I love him! He's so sweet, and amazing. Dex is a goofball, but can and will kick your ass if you mess with Sofie. He's the classic smart and goofy friend who tries to keep the MC out of trouble. I loved him from the start, and if he gets screwed over I will rage. We all need a Dex in our life. Keefe Character Analysis:So much hype around Keefe. So much. AND HE DESERVES IT!!I was in love from the moment we met him. He's sarcastic, funny, and loyal, always there to crack a joke. I would probably be tounge-tied if I met him. Can you blame me? No, no you can't. Keefe deserves all the love he has, and more. KEEFE STANS, I SEE YOU!! I AM YOU!!!Thoughts on Plot: The worldbuilding was strong, though, again, the beginning was AWFUL. If you push through, you probably won't hate it as much 🙃Final Thoughts:Okay, fine. I might join your cult. Don't get you hopes up. Keefe and Sophie forever. In my minds, Dex is gay, convince me otherwise.