This third instalment in Megan Whalen Turner's The Queen's Thief series is easily the best yet. I feel like this series is getting better and better as it progresses as Turner seems to have figured out what works and what does not and makes the correct adjustments. This series is an old school coming of age YA fantasy story in many ways but what sets it apart is that the focus tends to be on intrigue and character development rather than flashy action scenes. It also helps that Turner is a clever writer. Scenes that at first glance tend to feel a little throwaway often tend to turn out to be significant set up work for later happenings in the story. It leaves the reader feeling like Turner had the story planned from start to finish and that there is very little waste and padding. The world itself was heavily inspired by Greek mythology.The story in this one pretty much picked up from where the last book ended. Eugenides is now the King of Attolia. The problem is it is a title and role he never really wanted even if he does recognize the necessity of it and the people of Attolia have good reason to resent him. What we got was a story with a heavy focus on character development and court intrigue. I felt like Turner nailed both so I found this to be a super engaging tale from start to finish. Structurally I feel like Turner did a lot of clever things that made this story the best in the series so far. The scope was very tight with pretty much all of the action taking place in the palace in Attolia and pretty much all the major characters in the story being members of the Attolian court. There was much less of an epic feel to this instalment of the series than there was in the previous books but surprisingly this turned out to be an advantage as the characters and the court intrigue benefited from being the sole focus of the story. The other really clever thing Turner did in this one was switch the focus away from Gen and Attolia. The pair were still the main characters and the stars of the book but the fact that we saw them from the eyes of Costis, a young Attolian guard, and a few other servants in the court was a master-stroke. It left the motivations of Gen and Attolia a bit of a mystery and also gave us the chance to see both characters from a different perspective and I felt like that really enriched the story and gave it extra depth. All in all I really enjoyed The King of Attolia and hope the rest of the series delivers this quality of storytelling. Rating: 4.5 stars. I'm rounding down to 4 stars here on Goodreads but that is mostly because I've been picky lately!Audio Note: Jeff Woodman is a fantastic narrator.