“Are you badly hurt?”“Hideously,” said the king, without sounding injured at all. “I am disemboweled. My insides may in an instant become my outsides as I stand here before you.”

Attolis, the new king of Attolia, is a pawn. He is lazy, unloved by his wife, and there to be a victim, unaware of the political machinations of his court. At least, that’s what his guard thinks of him; they love their queen, of course, but do not love their king. This includes Costis, his newly appointed guard, who hates him. With a clever point of view shift to a new character, this book is a clever and eerie ride.This series feels so classic, like something everyone would’ve been obsessed with ten years ago. I hope people will still obssess over it now. So what do people always praise about this series? Because item #1 is the plotting, and item #2 is the character work. I second both. I’ve been thinking a lot about why the plotting of this series is so great, and it’s because Megan Whalen Turner is so good at planting and payoff. If a plot element shows up in the beginning of the book, it will be become a part of the book further on; within the world, with political elements, with character elements. Element after element is used for plot twists and it is always so satisfying and compelling.And perhaps even more importantly, the character work here is fucking incredible. Gen is a fantastic mastermind. Costis is an impressively likable character, especially as he’s just shown up. Gen and Irene are one of the most endearing couples I have ever read about. Also, I absolutely love and adore the dialogue. It’s glorious and adds so much to these characters.So why only four stars? You know, this has gotten the hype of being the best book in this series, and I have to admit, I’m not sure it lived up to that. One of my absolute favorite parts of The Queen of Attolia was the development of Irene; her slow character arc, the growing relationship between her and Gen. This book… lacked Irene. Okay, she’s there plenty, but I LOVE her and she was not in this book enough. Costis is a really interesting character and I really loved the growing relationship between him and Gen, but I admit, I was disappointed by the overall smaller scale of the plot twists and the action. I do really like that this series is becoming primarily the story of 
small but powerful players within a very large world,
 but the shift was surprising, especially as the narrator, Costis, drives very little of the plot. It’s an interesting plot device, but as a result, I found myself losing focus on action within the middle. But this worked pretty well, because we’re so invested in the characters involved in the action. And when it comes down to it, I really enjoyed this. It’s such a fun classic fantasy; I feel reminded of old Kristin Cashore and Tamora Pierce in the best way. It is a fantastic read and I cannot wait to get to the next book.
here are my other series thoughts:
book one - ★★★☆☆book two - ★★★★★book three - ★★★★☆book four - ★★★★☆book five - ★★★★★book six - TBDBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube