I dnf-ed this book today because it is so repulsive. I will not finish it, even though it is the third in a series and even though I usually make a habit of finishing books.I have read a few so-called "grimdark" fantasy authors and it never bothered me even slightly. To me, (excessive) violence usually feels either like a part of the story and the world (Abercrombie, Bakker) and doesn't faze me, or super edgy and cringe inducing (Lawerence). I have read the first two books of this series, and they were kind of enjoyable. The language is trying way too hard to sound high-brow and the world is a super weird, unimaginative only slightly-altered copy of (mainly) European culture and religion which is also a bit cringy and enforces stereotypes left and right - there was a part in this book where the main character is in an Arabian-esque country and talks about how the men (granted, they are bad guys, but still) allegedly have sex with goats - so there is that. BUT the author sometimes did hit the right tone and in general the premise of this series is just really promising and something new. I actually picked this series BECAUSE of its BDSM elements - they were quite well done in the first book at least. But like 45% into this book... everything is just so unnecessarily, hopelessly cruel and dark and violent for pure shock value. It literally made me sick. This is probably mainly because from the beginnig a major plot point of this book is about children basically being abducted to be sex slaves. And I simply cannot continue to read about it. It's repulsive. Yes, this happens in the real world, and yes it's a plot, and yes, it's never explicitly described, only alluded to, but after about 200 pages you can't take it anymore. I don't wanna continue reading about little children suffering for nothing, I just don't. Then, ONCE AGAIN, our main character finds herself captured by a big bad guy, who has a tragic backstory and who finds her irresistible and abuses her to no end, which she, of course, unwillingly is into, since she is chosen by the gods to experience pain and pleasure as one.. yadiyada. (In the end, of course, her beauty and empathy manage to free not only herself but an opressed people... you get it). But since the plot was in TWO FUCKING BOOKS already, this time the author has to turn it up to a TEN. So the big baddie is the biggest baddie ever and OF COURSE (warning, I guess: GRAPHIC) he rapes her with an iron dildo with spikes which makes her bleed internally and stuff. I mean, how much worse can it get, right? UGH. No. No, no, no. I enjoy BDSM as much as the next gal, and the whole premise of Kushiel's Dart is really interesting, but this is just so... ugh. Come on.Adding to it all, of course, is that our heroine only does this shit for a woman she is weirdly enamored with, who once sold her into slavery, so she actually, yes, is in this situation VOLUNTARILY. The author had to pull a "her gods will leave her if she doesn't do it" to make this even remotely plausible. And aaaall of this happens while the alledged love of her life has to WATCH her getting aroused by this big bad guy mistreating her, while a fucking dog is set on fire and a kid is tortured, because, WHY THE FUCK NOT.UGHHHHH. I am not gonna revise this review, the book doesn't deserve this. I have no idea why this outraged me so today (I mean, speaking of dogs, I read all of Martin's abusive sex scenarios and somehow forgave him for those?). But whelp, there it is.