3.5 (or 3.75?)Not sure if I'll rate it a four yet. Probably. Mixed feelings everywhere! Dart is still my favourite of the trilogy.Carey can write, that much is obvious, and her world is complex and extremely fascinating, but...Phèdre's voice bothers me. I didn't dislike it at first, even though I liked all the secondary characters more than her, but after three books I've grown tired of her. She's just too perfect. And she reminds you of that in Every. Single. Page. That is my problem. I know that these things are parts of her character and her culture too, but while I used to be able to tolerate it, even if I never understood that, now I can't. It has become redundant, repetitive. I can't help but think that Kushiel's Dart was much better than this one is. Even book 2, for all its angst, was slightly better in my opinion, because Melisande stole the show.Plot wise I liked this conclusion. It brings this story arc to a fitting end, giving answers to the question that had been left unanswered, and the plot itself interwines with the subplots almost perfectly. When it comes to the structure of the book itself I have no complaints. And it helps that the characters have indeed grown and matured. Yet I struggled with Phèdre's narration this time around, more than ever. Repeating things about her role and praising herself over and over: that was painful to read. And no, it did not bring me pleasure. I liked the romance, but I did not love it. That is probably due to the fact that I don't understand Phèdre, I guess, I do not know. Hyacinthe made the choice for her in the end, otherwise what would have she done? I like Joscelin (who doesn't?) but sometimes his relationship with Phèdre seemed a bit off to me. I loved the fact that they grew as a couple throughout the series, by learning to accept each other's flaws and personality, but I wish Carey didn't show us only that part, but the happier moments too. The fish scene was cute though, but Joscelin is always cute. Especially when he is shirtless in the middle of a muddy river. And Imriel, that little devil, was just amplifying his cuteness. But really, Phèdre is one of my least favourite MCs ever. She's a well developed character, but, ugh, untolerable. It was easier to ignore when she was sorrounded by interesting characters, but in this book it became the big, pink elephant in the room. I'll try to read Imriel's trilogy. Not just because if I don't Lys will skin me alive of course. Imri is so cute.