Since I read the first two books from the Kushiel series by Jacqueline Carey, I am a huge fan of hers. But nothing, and I mean NOTHING, prepared me for this book! “Kushiel’s Avatar” is by far the best book I have ever read! For the first time in my life, I thought I was living in a book. A couple of times, I found myself not to continue reading because I was afraid of what will happen to the characters! I fell in love with them, fought beside them, cried for them, I lost hope as they did and, finally, I found my way like they did. I think that I walked the Lungo Drom with them.This book is not just another story of Phedre and her beloved Joscelin. And if you think that you’ll read another adventure, you will be very surprised. It starts like one, but at the end you can see the greater purpose of this adventure. From the land of Terre d’Ange and the great beauty, Phedre and Joscelin, ten years after the events of the second book are beginning a long journey. It all begins with the search of the name of the one true god in order to help Hyacinthe, Phedre’s childhood friend who is cursed after the events of the first book. But soon, another quest in important. The child of Phedre’s worst enemy and darkest passion is missing and in order to find him, they have to go the most cruel and mad place in their world.Phedre isn’t anymore a young woman, new to the game of thrones. She has experience and she is clever. Her life the last ten years was very good. She has wealth but the most important is that the man who loves deeply against all odds, is with her and they have found a balance between them. I can’t say that I don’t understand that she had to make the most difficult decisions in this book and it wasn’t easy for her, but sometimes it was hard to read it. In this story, Phedre make a journey to the darkest place in her world but it was also a journey to the darkest place in her soul. She found her limits and I don’t think that she liked the answer. Joscelin found his limits too. He is one of my favorite male characters and it was too hard for to watch him suffer. Because, he suffered a lot. Loyal to his promise to protect and serve Phedre into damnation and beyond, he followed her in his worst nightmare. He watched her, doing things beyond his imagination but his love was always there. Because, although sometimes his actions are violent, he has pure soul and his love is undying. Sometimes I was thinking that he’s a victim of Phedre, because she asks so much from him and he is giving her everything, but at the end of the book I realize that this is my mistake. Because, Josceline isn’t her victim but her balance.Both of them, walked the Lungo Drom, not only for Hyacinthe but for themselves also. They found their limits, the fought their demons and at the end they found their truth.Another character that I absolutely loved in this book is Imriel. He is the son of Melisande, a traitor and an enemy to the crown. He didn’t knew anything about his mother and he was living a nightmare until Phedre and Josceline saved him from a cruel fate. I don’t want to say more about him because I won’t avoid spoilers. He is clever and stubborn, but he is also loyal and kind. I can’t wait to read more about him!Of course, many more characters were important in this book both old and new ones, but I won’t write for all because it will be a huge review! You just have to know that this is an amazing book and I’m glad that I’m reading this series!