Kushiel's Avatar picks up ten years after the events of the last book. It's been ten years of peace for Phedre and my favorite warrior priest, Joscelin Verreuil, but that respite comes to an end as the two heroes of the realm are called upon to help someone neither ever thought to willingly aid while simultaneously delivering on a long-held promise to an old friend. Their efforts will take them through what we would consider the Middle East and Africa and will keep them far from their home fires for a long, long time.This is easily the darkest book in the trilogy in my opinion and, again, it is at the near halfway mark when things start to take a turn. Up to that point the reader gets a sense that the subject matter will be hard but once you get about halfway through, the ugliness really hits you in the face. It was difficult to read but, like a rubber-necker passing a car accident, I couldn't look away.Phedre has always been a challenging heroine for me in that her nature as an anguisette is hard for me to wrap my mind around. By turns she impresses me with her loyalty and her courage and then she horrifies me with some of the things that sexually arouse her. Though I think that this is intentional by the author because Phedre has this same type of dual reaction to herself. She is a woman marked by the angel, Kushiel, and this results in an internal divide of sorts, with her mind and heart on one side and her body on another. So while I am at times utterly appalled by the things (and people) that create sexual desire in her, Phedre herself is horrified in her heart and mind. She is plagued by self-hatred and loathing at times which lends an element of sadness to her existence. Nevertheless, knowing all this in my head it is still difficult for me to always like Phedre simply because I just can't mentally go where she goes. And in this book, Phedre mentally goes to some very dark places.As for Joscelin, he has come a long way since book one and I enjoyed seeing the way that he and Phedre have learned to work and live together. You get a definite sense that they are both older and wiser and don't leave the things unsaid that need to be said. Joscelin is now definitely high on my list of book boyfriends. Forever after, whenever a male character promises to follow the woman he loves into damnation and beyond Joscelin Verreuil has set the standard. That said, once the ugliness of the events in this book rises up to slap the reader in the face, the question arises...at what point can love no longer survive?This was a worthy conclusion to Phedre's trilogy and I was riveted to the story for almost all of it (I was more caught up in the Imriel part of the storyline as opposed to Hyacinth's). Through all the darkness and the light, the victories and the losses, the bitterest hate and the most uplifting love, I have felt swept away and transported along with the characters. I have always considered myself open-minded but these books have challenged me on that point somewhat, and that's not a bad thing. As Blessed Elua taught: "Love as thou wilt." And that's not a bad edict by which to live.