The conclusion to Jacqueline Carey’s Kushiel trilogy featuring Phedre no Delaunay leads us to Phedre’s darkest hour. Torn between two loyalties, Phedre starts a new journey to save the missing child, Imriel de la Courcel. Imriel is no ordinary child; born of Phedre’s betrayer, Melisandre Shahrizai, he is of two lines. From his father’s side, he is in the direct line to Terre d’Ange’s throne. From his mother’s blood, he is bequeathed the darker aspects of Kushiel’s legacy.In Phedre’s quest to find the lost boy, she must yield and endure the worst her gods ask of her. If she refuses the quest, she may lose the favours of her gods. Her trials do not end at finding the boy. It is merely a painful step in her ultimate goal, to free her childhood friend, Hyacinthe. Accompanying and watching her suffer through the sadistic tortures is her loyal and loving warrior-priest, Joscelin. This book truly demonstrates Elua’s sacred concept, “Love as thou wilt”.J. Carey’s provocative writing lures me to read and reread her books. The fantastic multifaceted and culturally enriched world she creates is a feast for the starving. In a time where most authors provide a “fast food story”, Carey caters for a 12 course gourmet meal. Each scene is designed to interlock and enhance a plot further along in her story. Her main characters are endearing, neither completely evil nor good. For each Evil person, she redeems them with acts of kindness. For each Good person, when an unspeakable act is committed, motives are explained in such a way that forces the reader to empathize.J. Carey is a true artist who paints exquisite scenery and erotic situations. The interactions between Phedre, Joscelin, Imirel and Melisandre invoke strong passionate emotions. Several of her sex scenes build and stroke desires to a feverous peak before it explodes in a fiery climax. In the Kushiel Trilogy, she built an entire civilization which embodies the BDSM society openly. Her anguissette portrays the ultimate submissive BDSM persona. Definitely not for the bland or timid; no sexual limit is taboo in this book. I eagerly wait for her next trilogy into the world of Terre d’Ange.