CONTAINS LOTS OF SWEARING. YOU ARE WARNED Ladies and gentlemen, may I present.... The biggest disappointment of 2018oK. oK. WHAT KIND OF A FUCKING MESS DID I JUST READ????I WANT MY TIME BACK. I'm just thankful I didn't have to pay for this shit. If this book was on fire and I have a bowl of water, I would drink the waterLet's break it the fuck down, shall we? ✨What I liked ✨1.the beginningthe beginning was bomb as hell. It started off with a fucking bang and I was hooked. but as you can see from my one star rating, it went downhill.2.The ideaok fine the idea, the premise is interesting.3. ya that's it✨What I disliked✨SIS WE CAN GO FOR HOURS BUT LET ME LIST SOME.1.The main characters.They're just basically two cats in heat. I feel 0 connection, I find their personality as lovely as a dead rat on the road. What is wrong with you idiots?? a) Elianabitch ass was supposed to be the tough bounty hunter and shit she even got the title of "the dread of orline." Nah Eliana is the typical "strong" "deadly" special snowflake ya mc with a personality of a goldfish. I cant stand her. I honestly feel like the author was trying to recreate Aelin from throne of glass. I hate Aelin but at least I can still read about her  I can't say the same for this bitch b) Riellei literally just sighed before I typed this. Ok. She's a mess. a mess. and not even a hot one. This bitch literally cares nothing other than "I'm so powerful" and how much she want to suck Audric's earth shattering penis. she's the definition of a cat in heat.2. The plotWHAT THE FUCK IS EVEN THE FUCKING PLOT TO EVEN FUCKING BEGIN WITH? 3.The PacingWatching paint dry is less boring than reading this4.The Bi rep My ass was so ready for the rep. bUT WAS THAT EVEN A REP?Eliana is Bi and (Rielle is may or may not be?? issa mess) What I hate is that these two bitches are thirsty as hell. tbh it just enforced the whole "Bi people are promiscuous" thing. I absolutely hate it. I mean Eliana would honestly fuck anything I'm done.5.The smutThe ground literally shook when she came. if that doesn't make you laugh idk what will. I read better Draco Malfoy smut on wattpad back when I was twelve. How the fuck is this even ya??? literally half of this book is talking about how these two horny girls wanting to fuck. 6.The worldbuildingI don't even know what I don't know✨Overall✨This was supposed to be  the release of 2018. but nooooooo. I'm so disappointed I want to scream. I honestly want nothing more than to throw this book into a well.... full of gasoline... I'll bring the match. I'm honestly tempted to make a "I hate furyborn" club. Just so I can yell and rant and scream about this trashok adios I'm done ---------------------------------------Buddy read with the furyborn buddy read gang:fake Thai, Scrill, Emma, and Danielle