This was quite enjoyable. Part Regency memoir, part travelogue, part adventure story, part cozy mystery, it was just pleasant.CONTENT WARNINGS: (just a list of topics) dissection, miscarriage, loss of loved ones, intentional and casual racism, misogyny Things to love:-The combination of archetypes. If you like flintlock fantasy AND Regency AND mysteries AND...all the rest, this is a must-read. I didn't think they'd all manage to blend as well as they did and I was quite impressed.-Isabella. Plucky, flawed but earnest, and the walking embodiment of "I do what I want." Sometimes to a fault.-The relationships. The parents, lovers, friends, colleagues, siblings...all of them felt so charming.-The conceit. An older woman who broke barriers and is now doing her tell all on her career and life?? But that life is about being like the Jane Goodall meets Miss Phrynne Fisher of women, and the gorillas are instead dragons????? I keep coming back to the mash up! Someone mixed this just for me, I think.-The tone. I really liked just putting this on and letting it lull me to sleep. Not because it was boring, but because it was just so pleasant, both in content and narration, that I could listen to it even when I was mentally and physically exhausted and be soothed. -The ultimate ending. I liked that things were wrapped up, but not neatly, and that there's the promise of more without it feeling like a cliffhanger. Well done.Things that hampered my reading:-The casual racism. Look there are stereotypes in here, there's no avoiding it. They're secondary world, but they're very clearly based on certain cultures in our world and it was a bit weird that we needed that, given that it wasn't really our world, and that Isabella calls out her impolitic moments but not about these impressions she formed. So I'm left to believe the author didn't see an issue. This may have been compounded by the audio narrator's voice selection which was...pronounced. She's talented but it didn't help sand the rough edges off the prose.-The mystery felt a bit tacked on. I don't even know how you go about combining all the things that got combined, and I think this was a great effort, but the seams show a bit. I got Scooby Doo flashes.-Some nonsensical bits. Every time this woman wakes up without her husband staring at her full in the face, she's doing stupid shit. You'd think after the third or fourth time she manages to get kidnapped or haunted or whatever, she'd say to herself "you know what? Let me just wake Jacob, I shouldn't go alone as I always seem to stumble into cults or whatever." Same with a few other characters' responses. -The end of the study. It just bummed me out when I didn't want to be bummed, I wanted to feel victorious.Not perfect, but perfectly delightful. Absolutely adding this to my list of "more or less feel good as long as you squint" books. I will be continuing the series.