Genuinely I loved this. I picked this up at long last at what I felt was the perfect time. not only had two of my great friends been recently discussing it and saying how much they enjoyed it (Paul and Elizabeth) but they also mentioned the focus on anatomy and science and drawing of Dragons. I've owned this book for literally years now, and I felt like it was about time I got to reading it. I'm so glad that the time I chose to start it was also the time when I was involved in drawing Dinosaur anatomy for University, as Dinos and Dragons are not too far removed and the blend of book and project helped me to fully immerse myself within this world :)This story follows the early life of Lady Trent who we know as Isabella. She's a young lady with a dangerous passion: Dragons. In this world Dragons are rare, but not uncommon in some areas of the world. Isabella has always had a passion for the majestic beasts, and she's made a habit of 'borrowing' books on the subject from her father and sneaking in to see the beasts if ever an opportunity arises. We follow, in Lady Trent's own words, her childhood and early adult life including her first excursion to discover more about the creatures and also get involved in the mysteries of life abroad. The adventure is real and raw, and filled with dangers no-one foresaw, but she and her friends are resourceful.The pacing and plotting of this book are fantastic allowing the reader to follow easily and yet be drawn in. The very British sensibilities make this a wonderfully amusing read at times too, and seeing Lady Trent face the difficulties of being a woman in a man's world really worked. Isabella is lucky enough to be surrounded by men who are more free with her than most would be, and so she enjoys things rather unladylike. I loved seeing the adventurous explorer and researcher within the prim and proper facade!This book made me laugh and smile, chuckle and roll my eyes and even get a little bit emotional too. I would recommend this to fans of Gail Carriger's books as I think that they have a similar feel, even if it's rather more focused on Dragons than Vamps/Werewolves. A splendid read, 5*s, and I already have book #2 waiting for me to dive into it :)