I feel like this book is named incorrectly. A Natural History of Dragons? While it is a memoir of Lady Trent dragons hardly play into it. I was thinking that this might be a book much like The Resurrectionist: The Lost Work of Spencer Black, but perhaps a bit less mad scientist and more dragon biology.I was disappointed.Lady Trent is a woman born in the time where women are expected to attend and host dinner events, not to read books. But after developing a passion for books and dragons at a young age, she is lucky enough to find a man that allows her to accompany him on an expedition to Vystrana to study rock wyrms.While I liked that Lady Trent is a fine example of a woman that broke society's norms and dared to push the boundaries of what was acceptable, I found her immature, and while highly intelligent she lacked common sense. I suppose she is 19 so I cut her some slack but there is only so many chances. She constantly threw herself into dangerous situations without thinking but somehow managed to emerge unscathed, although those around her were not always so lucky.The men in this book contributed nothing, and while they are also there to study dragons, do not actually produce any original idea or thought that contributes to the story. It seems that Lady Trent with all her recklessness is the only one that is able to produce any kind of hypothesis or evidence. I guess this is a refreshing change, it would have been more believable to have men that actually looked at the evidence they collected.Another issue I had with this book is that there was no actual science! In lands where wolf-drakes are still numerous, it is common knowledge that they prefer female prey.While it is clear that certain animals can tell the difference between males/females, I don't know if there are any actual examples of animals that prefer female prey. While I know I am arguing the biology of a fictional creature, I would like to know what evolutionary advantage there is to eating female prey? Are they softer and more tasty? Easier to catch as babies slow them down? Does the hip width promote easier snacking?To someone who finds Biology fascinating, I was extremely disappointed that I didn't really actually learn anything useful or interesting about "dragons".But on the plus side the drawings were great so I'll give it an extra half star.2.5 Stars