We are the sum of all we have done added to the sum of all that has been done to us.Fool's Fate is a great conclusion to The Tawny Man Trilogy, after the disappointment that was Assassin's Quest I was scared this will be another even though Liveship Traders was amazing. This is one of those instances that I'm glad I was proven wrong.This book started just where Golden Fool ended, the journey that they spent a whole book preparing for has finally arrived. It was quite slow at the beginning but picked up 20% in. There was friendship, love, loyalty, amazing plots and wonderful characters. There are also dragons in this, how cool is that, not to mention the revelations 🤯All of life, is in our minds. Where else does it take place, where else do we add up what it means to us and subtract what we have lost? An event is just an event until some person attaches meaning to it.The world building and writing is one of Hobb's strong point and she didn't disappoint, I thought the previous book was good, this is way better. 80% of the book took place on an ice filled island and this was well depicted. Just like it's predecessors, this is written solely in first person perspective of Fitz.The skill and the wit the magic system of this series was finally explained here, they found lots of skill scroll that told them how to better use the magic, so now it's not only telepathy but healing and teleporting. I feel like the author is just adding that now, I still prefer the wit to skill, I wish Fitz used the both not just one at a time.My favourite character still remain FitzChivalry Farseer, his character growth is tremendous. I remember how he was in Assassin's Quest and this grown up him. Not only is he no more whinny and pitiful he now stands up for himself, he's still loyal to the Farseers but there is a line now. I hope that doesn't change.The Fool is also here, his friendship with Fitz is one of the highlights of this book for me. He loves Fitz more than everyone. I know more about him than I did before but not enough.Dutiful is growing up to be a good king, he's so different from the other Farseers like Chade who is manipulative and old school.Nettle and Elliania also played prominent roles in this. Thick is the character that surprised me the most. Despite being a simpleton he is smart.Patience was just at the ending but her parts was wonderful as usual.‘Much too soft. I’ll never be able to sleep on this. Do they think I’m a hen, setting in a nest?’ Then, as she lay back and I helped her lift her feet onto the bed she said, ‘You’ve quite ruined my surprise, you know. Here, I was all set to summon a grandchild to me and reveal to her that she was well born of noble blood, and pass on to her keepsakes of her father’s. Oh, help me take my shoes off. When did my feet get so far away from my hands?’Burrrich and Molly with their brood of children were also here.The plot follows Dutiful, Fitz, Chade and the rest of them to the Outislands to kill the dragon buried in ice. As usual things didn't go according to plans, not only was the dragon buried hundreds of feet in the ice that also have oppositions.Spoilers AheadMolly Chandler, here's a character that I never got around to liking, I didn't like her in Farseer Trilogy and nothing have changed.Like she married Burrich who is Fitz's adopted father few months after giving birth to Fitz's child, yes I know she thought he was dead but still couldn't she pick someone else? She did the same thing again when Burrich died she moved on with Fitz, does that mean she never loved Burrich or loved them both.Burrrich is as guilty as her, he never gave any of them a choice. When Fitz was in a bad place after almost dying in Assassin's Quest, he needed a lifeline, Burrich should have told him then that Molly was pregnant with his child but he never did and vice versa he never told Molly that Fitz survived the dungeons so to her he died then, he is even more guilty than Molly. Hr had the guts to say he was the better man for her, no one is denying that if only he gave any of them a choice.