Seventeen-year-old Alice has never had reason to believe her grandmother's book of dark fairy tales is founded in truth - until now. When her mother is kidnapped by a mysterious figure who claims to be from the Hinterland – the dangerous supernatural world where her grandmother's stories are set – she must join forces with a classmate, Ellery Finch, whose cult-love of her grandmother's fairy tales are the key to finding the realm where her mother is being held captive. The Hazel Wood pays homage to fables and fairy tales by occasionally making light references to stories such as "The Three Little Pigs" when Alice questions, "If you've spent your whole life running, how do you learn to stand still? How do you figure out the right way to turn your straw house into brick?"* or "Hansel and Gretel" and "Rumpelstiltskin" when Althea Proserpine (Alice's grandmother) is asked by an interviewer how to get to her house in the Hazel Wood and she replies, "You'd get lost on the way to finding me. You'd need breadcrumbs or a spool of thread."* Albert's prose flip-flops between lyrical and sensory to novice and bumbling. Some descriptions are liable to make readers swoon. "Everything was echo and pulse, float and stretch, sleep and wake and a distant hunger,"* Albert writes of Alice's experience waking after having been knocked out. "A distant ray. I nipped at it like sugar water. Then a whoosh and a wrenching in my core, and the velvet dark ripped open."* When Alice watches Ellery open an old book, Albert drops readers into the scene by stating, "a scent rose from its pages, the honey must of old print and something else - something sweet."* Albert's floral descriptions, however, are flattened by her irritating dependence on an awkward, redundant sentence structure employed to either regale readers with laughably bad similes or to spoon-feed her audience. For example: Seeing it gave me a hot and cold feeling, like sweating in a winter coat.*The gun was drooping, like his arm was a dying stem.*She exhaled hard and spitty, like having to deal with me was too much to bear.*He bounced on the soles of his feet, like he was about to take off.*Further shortcomings include a lackluster protagonist, a feeble attempt to touch on social issues, and a befuddling categorization in Young Adult literature when this book lacks the youthfulness of YA and more readily belongs with Adult Fiction. Perhaps publishers hoped to capitalize on Albert's professional career as the editor of the Barnes & Noble Teen Blog? "She writes for teens, so her novel must be for teens," is a mathematical approach that doesn't quite compute in this situation. The Hazel Wood presents itself as a dark, foreboding tale but proves to be light reading. This over-hyped book with surface-level characters is neither creepy nor memorable. - *Note: All quotes taken from an Advanced Reader Copy. Special thanks to Flatiron Books for providing a free ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.