*** 4.25 ***A Buddy read with the Fantasy Buddy Reads Group, where Fantasy Rules!!! "... “Knowledge is what shapes us, little brothers,” he told them, for once his smile was absent, his tone entirely serious. “It makes us who we are. What we know informs everything we do and every decision we make.” ..."The young man who was Vaelin Al Sorna, entered the Sixth Order when he was eleven years old and by the time he was in his early twenties he was known by many names, Darkblade, The Young Hawk, the Shadow of the Raven, and Hope Killer just some of them, with the last the one which defines him in the Empire the most. The son of a Battle-Lord of wide renown, he has a difficult time understanding why his newly widowed father would give him to the fighting religious order, where you are supposed to forget all outside ties to family and friends and live only for your Order and the Faith. He had not yet grieved for the loss of his loving, war-hating mother, when he has to cut his ties with his father and all he has known up to now. The Order puts its members through teaching, training and trials, turning out some harsh, strong and formidable individuals who once become full flagged members, are expected to obey the Aspect = Leader of the Order and the party line with no questions asked.  "... “Choice is a lie. The greatest of lies.” ..."So, the story is told by a historian of the Empire, who has custody of our young warrior after he has been imprisoned for five years. He ask questions and Vaelin tells him the story the way he wants, but we get to know the true action as it really developed from Vaelin's memories... There are discrepancies between both, since some of the things he doesn't want anyone else to know, thus he doesn't tell them to the historian. To a degree, this takes away some of the worry for the main character, since we know he is telling the story, but that is all we know and we are also aware, that in the moment he is telling his tale, he is in active danger. Trust me, there is plenty to keep you on your toes.  "... “I knew a man once,” Al Sorna continued, “who loved a woman very much. But he had a duty to perform, a duty he knew would cost him his life, and hers too if she stayed with him. And so he tricked her and had her taken far away. Sometimes that man tries to cast his thoughts across the ocean, to see if the love they shared has turned to hate, but he finds only distant echoes of her fierce compassion, a life saved here, a kindness done there, like smoke trailing after a blazing torch. And so he wonders, does she hate me? For she has much to forgive, and between lovers,” his gaze switched from her to me, “betrayal is always the worst sin.” ..."This is a story of growth, betrayal, Faith, disillusionment, love, and even more so, understanding of what life is and how cheep or dear it could be... Our hero goes through all the growing pains a young person does, only we see it and we feel for him, because as jaded and imperfect as he turns out to be, there is a core of honor and good will which is strong inside of him, an idealism which is just looking for a reason to awake again and fight for a better world. And in the ugliness of the world he is subjected to, I am amazed he still finds a way to not lose himself among the scum of the Earth...  "... “Time is as much a delusion as your faith, brother. To look into the void is to see the vastness and smallness of everything at once, in an instant of terror and wonder.” ..."For it to be a good character-driven book, we need a good supporting cast and boy do we get it! From his brothers in the Order, to the healer sisters, from the lowest of the low, to the royal family, which is not necessarily a big jump if you ask me. Frentis happens to be my favorite and I hope I see much more of him, together with Scratch and Spit:) What can I say, I love animals:):):) Overall, I think if you like a Fantasy-Adventure with some possible paranormal powers and royal and religious intrigue, this is a very good book for you! I know I am looking forward to reading the rest of the series.  "... “It is the lessons we learn that change us from boys to men.” ..."Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you Need in the pages of a Good Book!