Sale Alert 9/30/17: On Amazon for $2.99Re-read before Queen of Fire is released.Original Review September 20144.5 StarsThis Series is so hard to review...So Many Great Things Happened....Just Read It.Bloodsong is the journey of a boy into becoming a man with enough power to change the world. The majority of this books focuses on the bond built between brothers, bonds that can’t be broken no matter what you have done. It is hard to capture Bloodsong accurately in a review because it has a fully built world, characters and plot. Small mysteries and journeys lead to larger ones. The choices that Vaelin makes throughout his life are not all correct. He makes mistakes and sacrifices along the way and there were enough twists and turns that I was kept guessing the entire book.Vaelin is the son of a famous Warrior and healer. After the death of his mother Vaelin is taken to train with the Order where he gives up all ties to his family and land to become a brother of the 6th order and protector of the faith. The Aspect’s gaze was impassive but Vaelin knew he could read every thought in his boy’s head. He wondered later how many boys, dragged or tricked there by treacherous fathers, did run away, and if so, if they ever regretted it. Loyalty is our strength. “I wish to come in, please,” he told the Aspect. There were tears in his eyes but he blinked them away. “I wish to learn many things.”  Vaelin’s journey in the order is a difficult one they are training warriors and he is an apt pupil, living through all the trails along the way.Never once did I question the man that Vaelin grew up to be because I journeyed through those years with him when he built bonds with his brothers in the Order and learned that the reasons he was brought to them might not be everything he thought they were. As every new layer is peeled away we see that maybe there is something dark lurking and waiting in the shadows as Vaelin has a destiny and there are some that do not want to see him make his way to it.Beral Shak Ur…”why do you call me that? I have a name of my own.”“Men such as yourself tend to collect names like trophies. Not all the names you’ll earn will be so kind.”There are so many things I liked about this story. First, it is told from the Present looking back on the past for most of it and as Vaelin tells his story you can’t wait to find out what happened to put him in the position he is in in the present. The narration escalated the intrigue over certain events by knowing the part of the end result.Second the world building is completely full and well-rounded with lands, religions, politics and so many meshed up cultures that it is hard not to get too caught up in all the details of it. The extra stories and lore all fit in and weave together so well. Third, there is a slight magic in tale, but I never found it overdone. There is a gradual realization of it instead of an abrupt “you have power and will rule the world muh-HA-Ha-ha-hA”. I really liked the hint of magic in the land and the promise of finding out more in later books.Finally, I loved the relationships that Vaelin had with those around him. The bonds between the brothers, the girl he loved and the very dangerous game he played with the King made him an extraordinarily easy character to like. He was never pompous or overconfident but made his choices and went on with them.I grew to really care for the characters in this world. Some of the scenes of war are a little horrific, but I think they should be. The story was complex, interesting and had enough twists and turns to keep you guessing. I strongly recommend this to any Fantasy lover.