Commas matter. They are important if someone, say, an author, wishes to convey a particular meaning or concept or image through the words they use in the books they want to sell. They are important for timing, and sentence structure, and plain ol' literacy. Plus, they make me feel good, like I'm reading something worth my time, rather than some 6th grade creative writing exercise. There's a big difference between "Let's eat, Grandpa!" and "Let's eat Grandpa!"Also this: "His father didn't reply. Walking over to the bell, he took his dagger from his belt and struck it with the pommel."He struck his belt with the pommel? Or his dagger? Oh, the bell? I'm confused."We storm castle walls braving arrows and fire."Those walls are so brave! I have been known to forgive editing errors in favor of a good story. And by all accounts, this is supposed to be a great story. But it's ruined for me now. There's no way that I can continue to read this and NOT look for errors, and the more errors I find, the more annoyed I'm going to be, so the end result would be the same: a 1 star review, regardless of how great the story may be otherwise. The only difference is that I'd have invested a great deal more of my time, and would have been all the more pissed off because of it. It's not often that I abandon a book this early. But in barely 4% of the text, I noted at least 50 errors. Most, but not all, were missing or incorrectly used commas or semicolons, with a smattering of poor formatting and sentence structure issues thrown in for good measure. That's just way, way too many for me to ignore. And, to be perfectly honest, it taints the rest of the book. For example: "Honoured Sir." Aruan greeted me with a short bow. "Honoured Sir," I replied formally.This little exchange is problematic for me, and given the iffy history of correct comma usage in this story, I have no way of knowing whether "Honoured Sir" is intended as an honorific or status title, or if they are each stating the they are honored to meet the other, as in "Honoured, Sir." And the context doesn't help to figure it out. Both can be seen as equally formal greetings. This is a comma conundrum, caused by poor punctuation and/or editing, and it makes me over-analyze every line, which is quite irritating. But if you want to know the straw that broke the camel's back, the one line that was just more than I could stand, and which shut this shit down, it's this one: "Sollis's cane snapped the air above his head."Whips snap (or crack) in the air. Canes whistle THROUGH the air. *sigh*I'm sure I'm probably going to get a ton of shit for this review, but I don't particularly care. I have standards, and this book didn't come anywhere close to meeting them, so I'm not going to waste my time on it anymore. Proper editing isn't optional.