There were two fantasy book series that took me by absolute surprise this year, The Bridge Kingdom was one of the series.I’ve never read Danielle L. Jensen’s books before and going into this, I went into it with an optimistic mind.The first book from the series, The Bridge Kingdom (The Bridge Kingdom #1), surprised me so much and I was genuinely really looking forward to reading The Traitor Queen. I mean come on, I put an alarm on my calendar.Let’s state the elephant in the room ok? Let’s put it out of the way…I LOVED The Traitor Queen by Danielle L. Jensen.Did I like it more than The Bridge Kingdom? Surprisingly, a big resounding YES!While The Bridge Kingdom had more elements of romance in it, The Traitor Queen didn’t (have no fear, there were just the right amount of romance). What The Bridge Kingdom lacked in, The Traitor Queen delivered tenfolds.The Traitor Queen by Danielle L. Jensen is definitely my new found obsession. It was angsty and full of action and adventure. I’ve read my fair share of fantasy books with ‘action & adventure’ but this book literally took my breath away.The scenes in this book were AMAZING! The way Danielle L. Jensen describes the scene unfolding infront of you is absolutely mind-blowing. I’d like to declare once again that I LOVE authors who write AMAZING secondary characters. Lara and her sisters are outstanding! Words would never be good enough to explain how ruthlessly breathtaking these women truly are. A huge standing ovation! Ladies and Gentlemen, I’d like to introduce you to my new book girl-crush, Lara.This character blows my mind away. She is dazzlingly breathtaking. She is brave, smart, ruthless and she is beyond capable and willing to push herself through the worst sort of circumstances for the greater good. Her capacity to endure hardship is nothing sort of astonishing.I admire Lara so much. She is an enigma: fearless and brave, tough and kind, selfish yet selfless…did I mention she’s brave? She is one of THE bravest character I’ve read in a while.Even with me enjoying this book so much,I was not ready for the AMAZING-NESS of this book. This book was emotional AND action packed people! It’s the “your heart will legit stop beating” kind of emotional and action packed book. You guys need to read this book..I can’t emphasis enough how much you need this book.I am in a MAJOR book hangover after reading The Traitor Queen.The Traitor Queen by Danielle L. Jensen is MUST MUST read.