4-4.5 stars.🔹 Overall feelings: 〰 I really really liked it. The first book was, hands down, one of my favorite reads of 2019 so it’s safe to say that this was one of my most anticipated books of 2020. That said, although I had already bought the Baecrate exclusive editions of this duology, I also bought the e-book when I realized that I would only get my physical copies at the end of the month (and I wanted to read this right away which means that I just  had  to buy the e-book too... oops). 🔹  Plot: 〰 I have come to absolutely adore Danielle Jensen’s writing style and although this is the first series that I’ve ever read by her, it definitely won’t be the last. She just knows how to include everything I love into one small book. The traitor Queen was action packed, angsty, thrilling and just overall really enjoyable. The pacing of this book is great and the plot is amazing but what made me fall in love with this series are the characters. I read a lot of fantasy and read a lot of books with badass heroines but I think that Lara is definitely in my top 5 for most enjoyable/strong heroines of all time. Although her character development is great, Jensen still does an amazing job of showing just how strong Lara truly is even when she’s at her most vulnerable, which I really appreciated. 🔹 characters: ❥  Lara 〰 I really liked the fact that Lara was not fully forgiven for her actions. Going into this book, my biggest concern was that Lara would be forgiven way too quickly, both by Aren and the Ithicanians. That however, was thankfully not the case. Throughout this book, Lara does EVERYTHING in her power to atone for the mess that she caused at the end of the first book but even by the end of this installment, she was still not a beloved queen and I thought that this aspect made the whole story more believable. Jensen also makes sure that you understand that this is the only possible ending that she could give us by reminding us a couple of times that the damage that Lara caused was definitely not small. That said, even if she sacrificed her life for Ithicana there will always be a chance that she will never be accepted or forgiven.〰 As I said, I really really adored Lara in this installment. I’ve honestly never read a character who never tries to play the victim and who understands just how much her actions affected others. She then does the most selfless things  ever  knowing that even if she gave up her life trying to protect Ithicana, she would still not have fully repaid the debt that she owes its people. I found that my favorite scenes in this book were the ones where she was acting so damn selfless and strong. For example: the scene with the sandstorm (where she covers his face and not her own and then proceeds to try to get them to safety... my heart...*cries forever*), the scene on the snake island and so many others... ugh, all of it was just so good. And the reason these scenes were so dang good is because for once, we have the heroine who’s actually saving the hero and not the other way around. More often than not, Aren was the one in need of help and in need of saving and I found that aspect extremely refreshing.❥  Aren 〰 Although i’ve been gushing about Lara for a while now, I also can’t forget Aren. Even though Lara’s definitely my favorite, Aren was also an amazing character. The fact that he didn’t forgive Lara instantly made him more believable but the fact that he also couldn’t stay away from her made him more loveable. Even he  finds himself sacrificing his own life numerous times in order to save his wife and let me just tell you, I freaking love them as a couple. The author does an amazing job of making you feel just how much they love each other and it’s honestly been a while since i’ve read a book where I felt like the characters would genuinely be miserable without each other. Overall, both main characters were absolutely amazing.❥  Secondary characters 〰 All absolutely amazing and just so enjoyable. Each character had a purpose in this story and each character deserves a book of their own. We’ll be getting Zarrah and Keris’ story next and I can’t wait.🔹  Final thoughts: 〰 Overall, this series is definitely one of my top favorite series of all time and I will probably be re-reading it often. Danielle Jensen has cemented herself as a favorite of mine and I will probably be reading her entire backlist at some point. Although I wished some things were slightly different (for example, I wanted a more dramatic death for Lara’s father—this and some other minor issues that I had prevented me from giving this 5 stars), this series still remains an excellent series in my opinion and I highly recommend it!——————— Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/rose_books2/