This was truly delightful. I think the only issue I had was that it was abbreviated where it could have been made into a truly moving story if it had a little more flesh on its bones. It worked really well as is, but I think it could have been superlative with a little more space.CONTENT WARNING: emotional abuse, torture, death of children Things to love:-The take on gender. Hard to miss and hard not to love. A culture that does not force gender, and even postpones puberty until (and if) each person chooses how they want their body to look? That's great. Plus it was handled really well, I think. The singular "they" can be confusing for readers, especially when, as here, the main characters are twins, and often together. But Yang showed us how easy it is to get around that. There were also lots of great moments about "coming out" and how presentation and gender are not the same. I'm keeping this in my back pocket for when the young people in my life start questioning things like pronouns, presentation etc. It's a great "you're not alone" book that I think might make a lot of people think.-The world. Omg, so cool. Fans of Seirei no Moribito will find imagery so pretty you could cry. Rich, familiar and yet foreign, it was a great setting.-The magic. Again, just a twist on a classic, but well visualized and explained enough that I felt that I understood its uses and limits. I could have used more on this, but I still thought it was a great blend of mystical power creating science.-The conflict. All of the conflicts, really. What happened in Akeha's heart and with his body felt as immediate and important as the tyranny of the Tensorate, and the steps taken to counteract it. Again, I'd have liked this drawn out a little more. There was a lot that was so close to poignant but stopped just before we could commit to being in Akeha's head.Things Not to love:Seriously, I think the only thing that's keeping this from five stars from me is its brevity. I'm usually the first to say authors pad their stuff and it suffers for it. But here, it just needed a little more breathing room. I guess it was also slightly derivative, but so much was fresh and all of it was incredibly well done. I will always read one of my favorite story arcs again, and when they're as intricate as this one, the familiarity makes it just feel that much more special.I do recommend this, and will be continuing the series.