"Sometimes the price of dreams is achieving them."This is an omnibus edition which means that it contains two books, Wintertide and Percepliquis. Two books in a dense series mean a whole lot of action, plot-twists, turning points and (un)expected developments revelations. As this is essentially a story-driven tale, there is no point in even trying to give you a teaser what awaits or the essence of what is coming as it would only result in spoilers. Suffice to say that centuries of planning are finally coalescing into a shape and the conspiracies from the previous book took root and bore fruit. The first part deals with the challenges posed by the New Empire, whereas the second is a classic quest trope where the main protagonists need to go to the Distant&Dangerous place in order to get the Magic Thing necessary to fulfil the quest. It screams “cliché” but in fact, it is a well-written story. Even I have to admit that there were no corners cut in this book. I have read repeatedly (and usually falsely) in reviews of many recent epic fantasies that even though they base on the standard set of protagonists and motives, they rework them in a fresh way. Mr Sullivan achieved this feature: the arcs and tropes are both standard and not. Some things are as comfy as old pyjamas, but just when you think nothing will surprise you, a unique alteration of the known changes expected into an unpredictable. I got caught this way once or twice and it is a nice feeling, especially for a seasoned fantasy reader like myself. I can see that Mr Sullivan definitely grew as a writer and his writing gains depth. There is more substance to characters, both primary and secondary, they become more nuanced, multidimensional. And while I think some of Hadrian’s and Royce backstories could have been introduced in earlier books without any loss for the suspense, I still appreciate this development. The tale is balanced and all the characters are given their chance to shine without Arista one person dominating the events. Undoubtedly readers rooting for the Empress or her Secretary or those with a soft spot for Myron or Nimbus (that would be me, yes) will be happy to hear that. What I appreciated the most is that there are really no loose ends. No hastily sketched explanations. Every single sentence, every bizarre occurrence from previous books finds its place in the overall picture. Mr Sullivan, quite smugly, shows how the clues were all there for those smart enough to see them and understand. This happens rarely in the genre that far too often veers towards banal plots full of convenient magical fix-ups. If you wonder why the book does not merit the full mark for me, the reason is very simple. It did not manage to touch me emotionally even once. As I read, I often found myself drifting away and needed to go back a couple of paragraphs, especially of those were the personal backstories and reflections or romance scenes (Mr Sullivan, you really write quite atrocious romances). I still remain indifferent towards all the major characters (save Nimbus, naturally). It is a light and funny vanilla fantasy but the vanilla flavour intensifies and becomes a clockwork vanilla at times. While I can recommend the series and the writer, I cannot say I share the ubiquitous enthusiasm of numerous fans. To discover Riyria was fun but not that revelational. Note on the rating: 3,5 rounded up because of the deftness of the overall plot design.___Other Riyria Revelations: * Theft of Swords: The Crown of Conspiracy & Avempartha (#1-2) ★★★★☆* Rise of Empire: Nyphron Rising & The Emerald Storm (#3-4) ★★★☆☆