“When you expect nothing from the world—not the light of the sun, the wet of water, nor the air to breathe—everything is a wonder and every moment a gift.”A Full Five Stars: ✰✰✰✰✰What a journey this has been. In spite of my frustrations with the beginning of this series, this story and these characters have truly won me over in the best way possible. This was, without a doubt, one of the most satisfying conclusions I've ever read. If you've been following my reviews for awhile, you'll know that I actually DNFed the first book about two years ago. After incessantly hearing people rave about them though, I felt like I needed to give it another shot, so I made my way through book one for a second time and continued all the way through the trilogy as well. Never have I been so pleasantly surprised. People who have read these books will know exactly what I mean when I say that this is not a series that you read with your mind. These are books that you read with your heart. Intellectually, these are certainly not the best books I've ever read. It was relatively unoriginal worldbuilding, the story appeared to be simple and straightforward during the first several books, and the prose was not especially flowery or poetic. And yet, in spite of that, these books progressively became more and more meaningful to me. This last book, especially, went beyond just being a good book and turned into something truly special. And it's not something you experience because you're intellectually entertained or intrigued. It's something you experience because it touches on many of the things that define us as human beings. Things that can't be conjured by thought, but are felt in the heart. “More valuable than gold, more precious than life, is mercy bestowed upon he who hast not known its soft kiss”The themes in this book blew me away. It didn't avoid negative themes in it's attempt to emphasize the good. Rather, it perfectly balanced themes of justice and even revenge, with mercy. Themes of regret, with redemption. Themes of tragedy, with hope. Themes of misery and fear, with the discovery of true happiness in the midst of adverse circumstances. Even themes of identity, as many characters wrestled with who they were becoming and who they were supposed to be.“A beautiful day might bring disaster, while a day that begins trapped inside an ancient tomb, might be the best one of your life. If you don´t abandon hope on pleasant days, why do so on those that begin poorly?"And those characters make the backbone of this entire series. You'll get tired of hearing it, but seriously, the characters in this book are some of the most dynamic, likeable, and well developed people that you'll ever read. It is one of the most character-driven fantasy series I've come across as a result, and for good reason. When I say that these characters are dynamic, I mean that many of the characters you read about in the first several books are not the same people by the time you finish the series, and this isn't forced at all . A pet peeve of mine is authors who write "dramatic transformations" or "changes of heart" into their stories to help move things along, but it is rarely believable. Not so in these books. Sullivan takes his times, and as the reader, we get to walk alongside each of these characters as they are molded by all manner of circumstances. I can't think of a single character that wasn't done excellently well, and I'm a stickler about characters because it's the most important thing to me in a book. Even Magnus, the dwarf, who you spend most of the series hating is so well written. The villains of the story, too, get plenty of air time - and there are some awesome (awful? awesomely awful? *shrugs*) villains in this book. Sullivan writes both male and female characters who are convincing and believable. Royce and Hadrian, the primary duo of this entire series, are such a perfect combination. If I even tried to make a list of favorite characters, I don't think I'd know where to begin and where to stop. “Happiness comes from moving toward something. When you run away, ofttimes you bring your misery with you."Conclusions are important to me. A five star book or series can turn into a two star rating across the board if the ending is bad (Hunger Games. The level of hate and dissatisfaction I had with that final book left a bad taste on my tongue for the entire series as a whole). Good endings are so hard to come by, because many authors just meander their way to a conclusion in a way that slaps everything together in an almost careless manner. It's so easy to lose traction once you near the end. With that being said, I made it to the second half of Percepliquis (book six) and couldn't even believe what I was reading. So many different layers ranging from elements of the story, worldbuilding, and characters came together in way that was absolutely brilliant, plain and simple. I can't even talk about it for fear of spoilers, but I was blown away when I realized the amount of foreshadowing that was done, going all the way back to book one. This all reached it's peak at the climax of the story, and we were given a conclusion that wrapped everything up and left no loose ends untied. It was seriously good. “What's the advantage of fear or the benefit of regret or the bonus of granting misery a foothold even if death is embracing you? My old abbot used to say, 'Life is only precious if you wish it to be.' I look at it like the last bite of a wonderful meal. Do you enjoy it, or does the knowledge that there is no more to follow make it so bitter that you would ruin the experience?"In conclusion, I could say A LOT more about this book, but I won't. Seriously, if you were like me, and you put these books down after the first volume, pick it up again. It is worth the time it takes to get through the first book, and I'm sure you won't regret it. This series introduced me to characters that I learned to genuinely love, a story that touched me, and themes that I'm going to remember for a very, very long time. Michael Sullivan has officially made a fan out of me. “And I wish to thank you as well, Royce."He was puzzled. "For what?" "For reminding me that anyone, no matter what they've done, can find redemption if they seek it.”