***Spoiler free***Such a fantastic ending to what has become one of my favourite series. It took me ages to get to a point where I could sit down and read this last book. As usual once I started reading I couldn’t stop. Sullivan’s writing has come on so much during this series, it keeps you reading and it really does get better with each book. I’m going to keep this review brief. Well, I’ll try to. Something that surprised me was how emotional these books can be. Sullivan is not afraid to give the reader a bit of heartache. I’m not going to lie, so many of my favourite characters died during the course of this series. Whilst character deaths are certainly not a new plot device, I feel that in a lot of books nowadays the author is too scared to kill characters off. Especially important secondary characters. I love it when characters die and make a meaningful sacrifice. Too often I see authors kill off a character for a ‘sacrifice’ only to magically bring them back to life in the next chapter. It takes the meaning out of the sacrifice! That doesn’t happen here however. Off the top of my head I can count at least five characters who’s deaths meant something major to the plot and ended up devastating me. I got so attached to the characters in this series. Another surprise given the POV style, which is quite impersonal. Somehow, even though the reader is never fully in any one characters mind, the characters grow so much. Not only Royce and Hadrian but most of the secondary cast as well. I love character driven story’s and I feel that character development can often make or break a series for me. Sullivan far exceeded my expectations. This book was probably my favourite out of the three. It was so well constructed and high octane. The stakes were so very high and all the way through I was uncertain as to how the story was going to unfold. A few of the twists took me by surprise and changed my perception of previous events. Some other twists were a little predictable but the impact they made was so satisfying to read. I feel like this series is one that you should go into with the intention of reading in its entirety. The whole overarching plot and story is marvellous, and terribly clever. You can only really appreciate it once everything is revealed and you’ve read the books in their entirety. The ending was perfect, I’m so happy at how it left off. I love it when the author leaves a little up to the reader to decide how things go from there. Don’t get me wrong, there is resolution. But the future isn’t set in stone. I’m very excited to start the prequel series soon. I’m sure that it’s going to shed some light on many legendary heists that have been mentioned throughout the books. Also anymore time I can spend with Hadrian and my love Royce will be thoroughly enjoyed. My overall ranking for the series would be:1) Heir of Novron2)Theft of Swords3)Rise of Empire