This book is the ultimate Twilight retelling we didn’t know we needed (or maybe not needed) I tried my best to forget about reading this book as a twilight retelling but ugh! Help me! I can't with this book! So Grace Swan, who is Bella Swan's adopted twin sister moved to Alaska with her Uncle and Cousin. Oh, and her uncle is Charlie Swan's adopted twin brother. Moving on,Grace move on to this new boarding school in Phoenix Alaska where she meets with all these weird people. Then she meets (yeah you guessed it!) tall dark broody inhumanly handsome sparky boy Jaxon. Jaxon obviously starts behaving like a douche the second he meets her because why not? After a couple of minutes they realises they are soul mates so they starts kissing instead of fighting because again...WHY NOT?Grace noticed there's something wrong with this place and these people.Cause, all of them are oh so beautiful But Grace is not like her sister Bella Swan so she doesn’t do anything about it. She drools over Edward's adopted twin brother Jaxon. Meanwhile she also meets with Flint who is Jacobs adopted twin brother from Twilight. The amazing plagiarism goes on.Reasons why Grace is not like other girls: 1: even though there's seriously something wrong with all these people Grace still sat in her room. Cries for Jaxon after meeting him for five minutes. 2: Jaxon is a vampire but it took her 70% of the book to figure this out.3: Even our all time favourite cry baby Bella Swan didn’t take this long to figure out Edward is a sparky vampire. 4: Her bed sheet is hot pink. 5: yeah, seriously HOT PINK ADFXGAKAL wtf? Why did the writer think it's a good idea to mention that hot pink bed sheet so many times is beyond me. How did I forget to mention, Meet with Lia, who is Victoria's adopted twin sister. She tries to kill Bella I mean Grace because Edward I mean Jaxon killed her love of life James I mean Hudson. What an original plot.So after Grace found out that Jaxon is a Edward, I mean a vampire. She immediately realises she can't live without him. She doesn’t need oxygen she needs Jaxon. Here you go, you can see yourself. “Jaxon.” I push myself up, start looking wildly around the room. “Jaxon! Is he all right? Is he—”“No, I’d really like to see him now.” I start kicking at my covers"“Where is he?” I demand of the short-haired woman standing next to my bed. “I need to make sure…”"I need to escape and I need to figure out what’s happening to Jaxon. Everything else can wait." (yeah girl, we stopped the world clock for you. Go see Jaxon.)"I don’t know what I need, except to see Jaxon. To see his face, to touch him, to feel him breathe and know that he’s really okay." “I need to make sure he’s okay. I need…”My reaction after this shit was exactly like Jaxon:“Grace?” he interrupts.I wait for him to say something, but when he doesn’t, I answer, “What?” in what could, perhaps, be described as not the nicest tone.“Shut up.”