It turned out that no matter how far you fall, there's always a lower place.What are Faeries?While reading this book with my friends, (because after having the taste of buddy reading, I hardly ever read alone), my friend asked me this question. And I thought about it for a moment. The thing is, for me faeries were like fairies from Winx Club or from the W.i.t.c.h or like those pixies from Tinker Bell but even when I didn't know, I always wanted to know this side of them. Little did I know that these Faeries are mythical creatures known for their beauty on the surface and cruelty underneath. And when you pick a Holly Black book, that's exactly what you sign up for.Come now, my child, if we were planning to harm you, do you think we’d be lurking here beside the path in the very darkest part of the forest?And let me tell you this, she has written it in the finest way I've ever read and she's gotten me drunk on it.ReviewDown a path worn into the woods, past a stream and a hollowed-out log full of pill bugs and termites, was a glass coffin.In that coffin, slept a boy with horns on his head and ears like an elf's. He's been sleeping for generations and people have been partying all around him but no matter what anyone did, he never woke up.And ever since Ben and Hazel were kids, they've been visiting the boy in the coffin, telling stories they made and how they loved him.But that's not all. That's not the strangest or weirdest thing. There are other stories like how humans and faeries live together with no set rules but enough knowledge to know how to keep them at a distance.And yet, people make mistakes.Once, there was a girl who found a sword in the woods.Once, there was a girl who made a bargain with the Folk.[•••]Once, there was a girl who vowed she would save everyone in the world, but forgot herself.This a very short book and the little turns that this story takes are definitely worth reading without a hint.Everyone who knows about faeries knows the basic rules like never making a bargain with them, and they all know how to protect themselves, they know faeries can't lie and they know faeries can trap them through their words alone but when it comes to actually facing them, do people remember all that they've learned growing up?🎶 There’s a monster in our woodShe’ll get you if you’re not goodDrag you under leaves and sticksPunish you for all your tricksA nest of hair and gnawed boneYou are never, ever coming—Home. 🎶The people of Fairfold know that there's a monster in the darkest part of the forest but even though they live there, most people wave it away like just another story about the place they live in. But what happens when that monster comes out of the woods? This ↓What happens when the boy in the coffin finally wakes up? What happens when things from as normal as they were, start to suddenly change?Just read okay? It's a cute little magical world with all the charm you could find, and just a little terrible and a little frightening and a bit too cruel..(before I get to the spoilery section, talking about the Characters)MY THOUGHTSHolly Black is my Queen of writing faeries with the strongest fairytale vibes ever. After reading The Dark Artifices, which is basically what really introduced me to faeries, I thought I couldn't ask for any better faeries written ever but I was wrong. I read The Cruel Prince and I was amazed to the point that even today I say, there's no coming back.I reread that trilogy and I wanted more.so, what was this book?This book was like a little more of that faerie fruit and faerie wine that I craved and I'm more than satisfied with it.Reading this book was like satisfying the addict (obviously, me) by giving them a little more drug. Well, that's what this book was for me. And I must admit that when the book went slow, I was afraid that I might be disappointed after all but I was SO NOT!I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a little taste of Holly Black's writing, and tempting but wicked faeries, and a light and lush fantasy book with romance in it. Read it and ...be careful what you wish forSPOILERSFirst of all, just how crazy the forest was? The path that made itself for you and the way you had to say the rhyme to enter the revel? That was like a magical tale you tell your kids as a bed time story but you alter the story because you can't frighten your kids by telling them what really happens at the revels.Lords and ladies who walk unseen,lords and ladies all in green,three times I stamp upon the earth,let me in, green hill that gave me birth.And I absolutely loved how Hazel changed the last line to“Let me in for the sake of mirth.”HazelHazel, Hazel, blue of eye. Kissed the boys and made them cry.I really liked Hazel a lot and her desire to be a Knight really reminded me of Jude. It's definitely not easy to survive with faeries whether you live in the human world or the Faerie realm. And it was very sad how their parents neglected her and her brother. I got so emotional when Ben thought,Hazel never cried. She was forged from iron; she never broke. No one was tougher than his sister.Really, she loved too hard. She loved her brother and she loved the horned boy and she loved Jack, but she mostly loved her adventures and thinking of being a Knight. This girl who kissed anybody suffered a lot and nobody cared. The memories she tried to blur in her head, she was forced to remember it all. It was just so, so sad. I was kind of surprised how I got so sad for a girl in only a such a short time. (Tbh, I just read 3 books on a girl who was the main character and I still don't feel a thing for her.—Alina from Shadow and Bone)Hazel deserves another book! ✨✨JackAnyone who offers up their heart on a silver platter deserves what they get.Oh boy! I just LOVEEE him, okay. See? That easy to make me love characters. Just write well!! I really liked him from the start though I didn't like the way he first kissed Hazel. I was a bit suspicious of him when he talked about warning 3 times but after that I liked him more and got curious about him and I really liked his behaviour towards Hazel and how sincere he was with the people he loved.Yes, he was pulled towards the revels and his people and felt different there and liked it but that never made him choose all that above the family he grew up with and loved. When his mom told him not to come home, I felt so bad, I hated his mom.I loved the scenes from when he took Hazel to the revel and afterwards when he told her he liked her. I loved the way he remembered everything Hazel went through and was there for her still.“How do we start?” Hazel said.He looked down at her, lashes dusting his cheek when he blinked. “Any way you like. We could hang out after school. We could write each other long letters. You could send me on some kind of quest to win your favor.”It was sad and sweet when Hazel told him she keeps remembering stuff and that she wasn't normal and he said he didn't want normal. It felt good. Idk how long they'd last together or if Jack would develop more of a faerie nature as time passed or if he would keep loving Hazel like Sorrow loved the mortal guy, but I wish they stay happy and I wish we got more. ❤️BenEvery child needs a tragedy to become truly interesting.I'll be honest. I was impatient reading about him and thought he was just a cry baby in the name of an older brother but I was SO WRONG. This boy was so nice!He cared for his sister but just like her, he was going through things he didn't talk about. He was afraid of his music and losing control. He blamed himself too much, just like Hazel. When I read about him breaking his hand, I was just too shocked. The things fairfolk do to you. (Reminded me of Arthur Blackthorn from TDA) So much for a gift. :/ BUT, I really liked the idea of a story where the boy gets the prince charming and the girl who becomes a Knight saves everyone. It was different from the typical stories where the prince meets the girl and loves her and saves her. It felt good to read the story with this change.🥰SeverinForgive me. I grew up on my father’s boasting about the superiority of my people, and although I have listened to your kind for decades upon decades, it still hasn’t chased out all my worst habits of presumption.Now, this is what faeries are like. Especially the royal ones. I really loved seeing how just by making Severin tell the story of his sister and "showing how different he is from what he used to be in action", Holly Black delivered a whole Character and he didn't seem incomplete at all. This book didn't only show the cruel side of faeries but also delivered how less faeries think of a mortal life. That's the magic of good writing. you just KNOW the character building is good when you read one book that gets you attached to the characters and you remember that you still don't care about the ones you spent time on, reading 3 books about. Okay, I wasn't attached to Severin but I understood him. And I like understanding the Characters I read about. And it really made me sad listening about the story he told of his sister. And it was a very sweet and sad moment when Ben used music to take her through grief to end it.Anyway, I liked reading about Severin. It was amazing seeing his soft side towards Ben and how challenging he was to his father in the court. ✨YES, I want more of all these characters, read all their stories because this one book just isn't enough, but for a standalone fantasy book, Holly Black did a fantastic job creating the world, the plot and the characters.__________________Just tell me this: HOW does Holly Black write such fascinating stories in the best YA way possible? Her beautiful faeries with the way they tempt and enchant and glamour along with being so cruel that you can't imagine, it's just so beautifully terrible.That's not even the only best part.Her characters can be lgbtq+ and it's not everrr a problem. It's always like they're normal people—which they are—and have more things going on in their life than just talking about their sexuality.I love how she writes romance because I'm a hopeless romantic, duh. Romance is my favourite thing after fantasy and Holly Black gives me both.And then comes her way of writing the sibling relationship. That's just . . . Freaking good! I love reading about friendships and supportive, loyal siblings.This book is the best fairy tale ever! Like ever! After the Folk of the Air, of course.Review to come :) but I have unanswered questions.1. What was Ben doing when Hazel followed him? Still don't know.2. What's up with Jack and his faerie mother? Also, he can't lie so what was that he said when Hazel thought he was buying her time in the court?3. So, day time Hazel remembers nothing of the night she spent as a Knight but night time Hazel remembers all about the Day?_______________Pre read review.A stand-alone fantasy book by the author of the The Cruel Prince? Oh, I'm in! Also, another story on Faeries AND humans together? I just can't wait to make time for this! Ohhh AND the book trailer for this one?? LOVED IT!!