I remember loving Defiance by C.J. Redwine, even though to this day I still haven't picked up its sequels. And The Shadow Queen's awesome synopsis and its availability on Edelweiss instantly made me want to devour each and every word of it. So I did. Sadly, this resulted in my second ever 1-star rating. This novel, this author, this story -- they all tried. And they failed miserably because they tried too much. Starting with the world, there are so many elements stuffed together in the hope of reaching total awesomeness. Firstly, there were magic-wielders called mardushkas. Then there were dragon shapeshifters with two hearts. And goddamn ogres. In the last chapters it was mentioned Fae existed in the same universe and I was like -- There were countless parallels with other books I couldn't help than notice. We have a Lissa Dragomir like ability with the heroine's -- Lorelai -- healing power that also connects the minds in a telekinesis matter upon magic use. And then we have the storyline of the huntsman -- a prince -- that gets bound to the queen's will by a collar. Well, Dorian Havilliard much? Not to mention that we're endlessly sold this idea that Lorelai is a big strategist and that she analyzes and countermoves and expects and plans -- basically a Kestrel Trajan. She's no Kestrel, that I assure you of, and she wins her battles too easily. But maybe that's just the feeling that the queen isn't a worthy villain. She should be cunning and vicious and ruthless, but she's just a shameless wannabe. Levana would have her on her knees in three seconds tops. I was constantly in a state of boredom. However, don't mistake this for lack of action -- there were magic fights until the very end, but nothing bloody, nothing even remotely scary or adrenaline pumping to make me feel like things were about to get rough. I could've been sipping a cocktail on a beach in Bora Bora, not reading a supposedly thrilling high-fantasy novel. I wanted to DNF this book so many times, but I wouldn't let myself. The characters are so underdeveloped and one-dimensional. Lorelai, for instance, is never once described as anything beyond her supposedly serious and brave character. I could not connect with her due to her insipid personality. Gabril was a freaking useless character, because besides being extremely stubborn, he didn't do much of anything -- oh, except endlessly threatening to harm the prince. And speaking of the prince, he's naive and awfully generic. Not one trait made him even remotely interesting. Leo, on the other hand, I could've loved. He was what his sister should've been, but sadly he was used in a rather cliché-ish attempt at plot-development. From beginning till end, I felt as like I was watching a low-budget Hollywood movie, with cringe-worthy special effects and God-awful script. The world-building was basically not existent and the main events had an implausible quality to them thanks to their almost flawless unfolding. I wanted a complex retelling and I got the kindergarten spin on Snow White instead. Honestly, I did not hate a single thing about The Shadow Queen. But I did not love anything either. I did not feel an emotion while reading this (besides a moment of lmfao); it was dull, uninteresting and awfully disappointing. At least Falling Kingdoms made me angry and it somehow deserved two stars. The Shadow Queen was an all you can eat buffet that served a Snow White retelling with tiring writing, flat characters and equally boring plot. This book could very well be a standalone, seeing there's an epilogue and the story came full circle as far as the retelling goes. The reasons for why this would be prolonged into a series is beyond me. Who knows, maybe the author wants to retell other tales like in TLC. Regardless, I will not enter for a future ride and I do not recommend this novel.