*I received a copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review*“I’ve never been angry to have been born a woman. There have been times I’ve been angry at how the world treats us, but I see being a woman as a challenge I must fight. Like being born under a stormy sky. Some people are lucky enough to be born on a bright summer’s day. Maybe we were born under clouds. No wind. No rain. Just a mountain of clouds we must climb each morning so that we may see the sun.”I was hesitant to read Flame in the Mist after a total miss-miss The Wrath & the Dawn was for me, so take to consideration that if you read and enjoyed the aforementioned TWATD, there's a very big chance you'll enjoy FITM as much or maybe even more.This book follows a story of seventeen years old Mariko, whose life is suffocating her with rules and confines of being a proper lady, meant for only one purpose: to be a prize sold into a political marriage that will benefit her father. So when on her way to her future husbands, Mariko is almost killed and is presumed dead for the rest of the world, she seizes the opportunity to finally become her own person and follows her dreams. Many of you already know, this book is a loose retelling of Mulan, featuring a strong-minded heroine and her adventures in feudal Japan. Japanese culture is, alas, a rare guest in YA literature these days, and one of the reasons I was willing to give Renee Ahdieh another chance was this unique setting, and, plus, you know, who can say no to Mulan, right? I must say, to the extent of my knowledge, which is really not big, and judging by the feelings I had during the reading process, I absolutely loved the setting in this book. It really felt like I was reading a book about Japanese culture and had this ghostly feeling of being present in a world of samurais and ronins; I felt bushido – the way of the warrior - the heroine and other characters were following. Side note: I would recommend to look into the glossary at the end of the book before you start reading. There's a lot of Japanese terms in the book that will make it easier if you acknowledge yourself with them beforehand. The first 30% or so of the book were perfect for me: I liked everything about it; I admired and almost loved Mariko as our main character: her resolve to act, to rise above her stand, which was a hard task for a woman at the time, was admirable. And Mariko used her brains and wisdom to fight her way in the world of men dominance. She wasn’t perfect, she made mistakes, but imperfect is what means to be human. Funny thing, though, is the more I read the more repetitive everything Mariko did became. It felt like she stuck in her character development at one point, and there was nothing to show any progress, only the author’s desperate attempt to justify Mariko by telling to us how smart and sly she is, how she outsmarted everyone, and how everyone was nodding in confirmation of Mariko’s genius, but 'tell, don’t show' is not the best way of moving your character development. Readers need facts to believe, and the book demonstrated the opposite of author’s words. For example, almost everything Mariko did when she got to the Black Clan (Rebels) was forgiven or oversight: Black Clan executed people for less than what Mariko was given a free pass for. And why? Because she’s a mysterious new recruit? Or because she’s so special? Special snowflake alert someone?! Or sometimes the logic behind her actions was so lame, you couldn’t understand how did this happen if even a child could’ve predicted the outcome Mariko couldn’t see When Mariko warned her brother about Black Clan’s plan to raid the granary, she expected what? That there wouldn’t be any fight, sworn enemies would just drink tea, talk and go home? Or after she understood how fucked up the situation was, because of her stupidity she did what? She set granary on fire expecting to do what exactly? This was the food her people needed, and she thought using bombs in the proximity of the easily inflamed granary would do what, again? Fireworks? Well, that was definitely so stupid I can’t even say how disappointed I was with Mariko. He was smart, despite his age. Exceedingly watchful. A trait Mariko prized in herself. Um, no Mariko, bragging about how genius you are is a way to becoming an egotistical schmoe. Alas, I must admit that there was not enough depth to the main character to make me fully sympathize with and respect her. Secondary characters, though, they were more interesting than Mariko. Remember three mysterious book boyfriends I mentioned in my updates? Yes, Okami, Kenshin and Ranmaru are their names. Though they had less book space than Mariko did, I found myself following their stories with much more interest that I did with the heroine. I don’t want to reveal who was Mariko’s love interest, because it is kind of a surprise, but I'll mention Kenshin - Mariko’s brother. I was looking forward to siblings’ relationship, which is one of my favorite topics in books because I have a brother and can totally relate to conflicts between siblings. Alas, in this book there wasn’t enough ground to note something remarkable about Mariko and Kenshin’s relationship. They barely share one scene, and in the whole book, there was little mentioning of their ‘before’ relationship. Despite often sounding wise and telling the right thing, characters lacked some integral depth that would make them more endearing for a reader like me. The other major problem I had with this book is the romance. I don’t know what it is about Renee Ahdieh’s writing, but the way she outlines the romantic relationship between the main characters is very cliché-like and oppressive. What I mean is she seems to always follow the same pattern in her books: from enemies to lovers, where characters start strong and independent, but the more time they spend in the near proximity to their romantic interest, the clingier they become. In this book, Mariko had a solid mission. Quoting: Follow orders. Engender trust. Strike when they least expect it. She repeated these words a million times, I swear, they became some kind of parrot words. But what she actually spent her time doing? Salivating over her romantic interest’s abs. Her trail of thoughts: I hate him, but I want him; I was always so strong-willed, but I see his abs and to what places my will goes? The love interest brought out a wild, uncontrolled part of herself, Mariko had not even known existed before. Right, that sounds alarmingly familiar. And the same goes for the aforementioned love interest: he was always so controlled and the girl made him loose control he so much prided himself for. Oookay, if you say so, darling. *redirects to the gif above* I think the author rushed the romance too much, it would’ve been better if the romance was left on the stage of hints and slow-burn for the next book to develop more, because it seriously turned the whole story into one angsty drama with hasty love-for-life declarations that spoiled all the fun for me.But, as it was with the romance in TWATD, I was rooting for secondary characters’ romantic developments in FITM as well. I don’t know why, but in both author’s previous books and in this one, forbidden romance between secondary characters feels more real and endearing to me. There wasn’t much of it, and the scenes we had were heartbreaking and sweet and ten times more intriguing than Mariko’s love drama. One more thing I want to mention in my review is the ending. I am sorry to be such a Grinch, but, again, I wasn’t impressed with it, and the twist didn’t make me gasp, only if maybe in disappointment  Okami turned out to be the true leader of the Black Clan and true heir of the Samurai legacy. Um, he was perfect before and now he became ideal for Mariko to marry and ally her family with him when he restores his birthright. And who doubts that he would? Not me. Predictable much.Overall, Flame in the Mist is definitely a book worth reading if only for the Japanese setting and Eastern wisdom. But if you weren’t a fan of the author’s previous works, don’t expect to fall in love with this one, because it follows a lot of the same tropes TWATD had. And, on the contrary, if you were a fan, it is highly positive you will love this book as well. For me it was a 50/50 case, some things I liked a lot, some made me roll my eyes a lot. But I am definitely reading book 2 (by the way, is it a duology or trilogy?), and am looking forward to more book space for my new book boyfriends and secondary romances. Also, the plot was quite engaging, and a couple of questions that are left make me highly curious as for how things will work out in the sequel. My finale verdict: recommended!