“You do have a flair for the dramatic.”•Although The Wrath & the Dawn definitely did not make it into my all-time favourites list, the idea of giving a try to Flame in the Mist, inspired by Disney's Mulan (maybe the Disney movie I adore the most) and set in feudal Japan, still filled me with excitement. Sadly, however, I found that Ahdieh made once again many of the mistakes she'd made in her previous duology as well, and generally I noticed no, or very little, improvement. So let's see what we've got here.•I truly must be a very strange person, because I firmly believe Ahdieh's much-loved and much-vaunted writing to be the main problem. As I said in my review of The Rose & the Dagger, Ahdieh tries so hard to be and sound poetical and melodious, that ultimately her narration can only come off as pretentiously high-sounding. I'm not referring to the little details, such as her choice of words and expressions, and if you take her sentences one by one, rest assured you'll find nothing wrong with them. It is when you put them all together, one after the other, when you read the book (but to get a clear enough idea even just one chapter will do) that they start feeling odd: absurdly overdramatic and inflated to a fault. I would find it boring and annoying even if it lasted for no more than a couple of pages, but here we have a whole book written like this from cover to cover, and I'll be honest, it's tiring -no, it's exhausting. It's exhausting because you're forced to be continuously on edge, to wonder what on earth is happening of such importance that the author is presenting it as if 1) the end of the world is near or 2) some character just found out the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything.➔ Practical made-up example of how even the most inconsequential events and facts have to be written according to Ahdieh. This is how she would write—well, basically everything, according to the data I've picked up after reading all three of her books. Mariko glimpsed something on the ground. It glinted in the mud, the colour of burnt sugar.She stopped on her tracks and leaned down a little, then some more. Closer.She had to catch her breath; she picked the object up. So light.So soft. She had found-A leaf. I've found a leaf.When a reader stumbles upon a passage like this, he or she is led to believe the leaf is somehow functional, even fundamental, to the story. How do you think they'll feel when it becomes clear than it's actually not? The answer is, like a deflated balloon. And that is precisely the problem that Ahdieh's writing style creates, and which would not exist with a more sensible revision of the text: it raises expectations that have no place there and no hope to be fulfilled. I opted for inventing a brief example instead of selecting a quote from the book because, as I said, you won't find anything wrong on a microscopic level and nothing striking enough to make you understand what I mean that is brief enough to be quoted: it's the ultimate, wider effect you have to consider. And this effect is profoundly frustrating. •My second complaint concerns the logic behind some of Mariko's decisions. Take the first one: she doesn't want dishonour to befall her family, so she runs into the woods to understand who is after her, even though one of the problems to returning home was "the question of [her] virtue" that would be raised by her being "lost in the forest, alone with murderers and thieves" for even a couple of hours. How is spending more hours is there going to help in saving her family's honour, that's beyond me. You see, the thing is, her choices sometimes are even the right ones, but her mental processes are all messed up. She gave me never-ending headaches. Another instance of how her reasoning just doesn't stand up is, why does she never once wonder, at the end, about Ranmaru turning into a wolf? Shouldn't she find that strange? Or what the heck was the creature that warned her in the forest? The strangest magical things can happen and she wouldn't give it more than a passing thought. Odd.•Show-don't-tell who? There are few things I hate more that when authors don't follow this rule. We are told-and told-and told Mariko is so clever and curious and always outsmarts everyone, but if you had to count the times that actually happens you wouldn't get past... one, as far as I'm concerned. Moreover, Mariko stands out for being the inventor of the shuriken, of the grenade and of the smoke grenade. Okay... In other words, she is so magnificent and clever, I just decided I'll call her Mary Sue 2.0. Because, you know, you can't not give a bonus point to the inventor of the shuriken.•In many respects, Flame in the Mist is awfully similar to The Wrath & the Dawn. Never mind the setting; I'm talking about more substantial elements. See if this rings a bell: “And a part of her couldn’t help but think—were he another boy, in another time, in another place—Mariko would have liked to hear Ōkami’s laughter.Would have enjoyed being the cause of it.But he was a member of the Black Clan. The band of mercenaries who had tried to kill her. Who had slaughtered Chiyo and Nobutada.She hated this boy and all he stood for.” Sigh. Yes. I know. I would have liked some meaningful variation on the theme, just saying. And instead the dynamics of the romance are comparable, up to a measure, to those in TWATD, and Mariko and Shazi have much in common as well, even though the author does try to differentiate them by portraying Mariko as more hesitant and insecure at the beginning. Since I didn't like Shazi, you understand why I wasn't able to empathize with Mariko either. •Like in TWATD, there is magic playing peekaboo and completely devoid of contextualization: we have no clue as to what it actually is or where it comes from and it appears, like, two times in the whole book. And no one ever talks about it. Do they know it exist or do they think it's just part of the stories? Everything is so confused.•The Black Clan. Mariko keeps repeating they are terrible and cruel, but it's not as if anyone actually explains us why. Are they bandits, I suppose, since they live in the woods and all? Well, then couldn't you just say that? And did they exist before Ranmaru or did Ranmaru found them? What do they want, or what does Mariko think they want, in general, apart from killing her and all that's linked to that? Do they just rob people, normally, or what? And what have they done to deserve their reputation?Reader, you will never know.➽ I initially rounded up my rating to three stars, but after laying out all the things I found poorly done in the book, I see I'm not being honest. I've rated three stars some books that I've enjoyed far more, and, at the end of the day, I didn't enjoy Flame in the Mist. I am more than sure, however, that TWATD fans will love it, so if you enjoyed that duology, take this review as a "Go for it, you're in for a treat." On the other hand, if, like me, you didn't enjoy TWATD... welcome to the black sheep club. And don't worry, you can just skip this one.PRE-READING A book partly based on Disney's Mulan... YES! YES!...written by Renee Ahdieh.YE-oh. Uhm, okay?Still totally gonna read it. Mulan is one of my absolute favorite animated movies. Can't wait.