5 STARSI finished Only a Monster twenty minutes ago and I have just been lying on my bed while staring up at the ceiling, trying to acknowledge what I just read. I have been thinking about this book and it is just completely messing with my mind. It was every bit as amazing and perfect as I had imagined it would be, but I have no idea how to express how exactly I feel about this book. Only a Monster carved a hole deep into my chest and I have no idea how I'm going to be able to wait like TWO YEARS for the next book. SummarySixteen-year-old Joan Chang-Hunt is staying at her eccentric family's house in London for the Summer, and everything finally feels like it's falling into place. When her cute co-worker, Nick, asks her on a date, Joan is ecstatic. But in a twist, Joan and her family are actually monsters and Nick is a legendary monster slayer. She is forced to team up with Aaron Oliver, the cruel heir to the rival family, as they try to save her family, themselves, and the world.CharactersOf course, for me, character's are the most important part of every story. I absolutely loved the characters in Only a Monster. Joan Chang-Hunt is a half-Chinese, half-English, half-monster, half-human teenage girl, and I feel like everyone can see themselves in her. Although her biraciality was not much talked about, I still really enjoyed that addition. I liked the parallels between her monster heritage and her racial heritage. I also really liked that Joan's decisions did not seem reckless or pointless as they often do young adult. As the audience, we can understand and see why Joan does what she does. Aaron Oliver teams up with Joan in this book. I really enjoyed his character also. He was very complex, but not in a typical 'tortured hero' way, but in a way that seems realistic to a teenage boy. Nick Ward is the main antagonist in this story. Again, I like how Len did not use the typical tropes of a villainous love interest, but rather stayed true to his character in a way that made sense. It's literally impossible for me to pick who I loved more between Aaron and Nick, especially since Len had me going back and forth between them the entire book. Some of the other main characters, Ruth, Tom, and Jamie, were also great. I wish Jamie was developed upon a little more, but I still thought all of the characters were given a good amount of attention. Setting/WorldbuildingWhere do I begin? First of all, I am a sucker for books that take place in London, so that already drew me in. I loved the way the setting was incorporated in a really clever way. Magical realism is usually a hit or miss in terms of blending the magical world and the real world, but it was done well here. The worldbuilding is absolutely amazing. It is one of the most unique worlds I have come across. I don't want to spoil too much, but this book involves time traveling, and it is done in such a non-cliche way and it is so creative and ah! this book is just so genius. I loved as the characters traveled in different times and how they adapted and it was just so smart on the author's part. PlotThe plot was constantly moving and action-packed the entirety of the book. I never felt bored when reading it. I ended up devouring this book in one day just because everytime I got to the end of a chapter, I had to know what happened next. The pacing was perfect in this book and the structure kept me entertained the entire way through. ConsThere is very little I disliked about this book. In fact, despite how this was one of my last reads of 2021, it immediately found a way into my top 10. The one thing I would say about this book, though not really a con, is that I have no idea how there are going to be two other books after this. The ending just felt so . . . complete (even though there are some loose ends that I NEED to see wrapped up). I really hope Only a Monster #2 doesn't experience middle book syndrome.Final ThoughtsOH MY GOD THIS BOOK WAS LITERALLY PERFECT AND I AM GOING TO BE THINKING ABOUT THIS FOR THE NEXT COUPLE OF MONTHS UNTIL IT'S PUBLISHED AND I'M GOING TO BE SHOVING IT DOWN EVERYONE'S THROAT. I can't wait to see everyone's reactions when they read this and I NEED THE SEQUEL IMMEDIATELY. I HAVE NO IDEA HOW I CAN WAIT THAT LONG TO READ MORE. Thank you so much to Epic Reads and Harperteen for sending me this physical ARC in exchange for an honest review.- - -THE PUBLISHER JUST EMAILED ME THAT THEY WERE GOING TO SEND ME AN ARC OF ONLY A MONSTER IM SO HAPPY SJDJBSNAHFJDKSKCBC