Polemical indeed

BEST SCI-FI'S NOVEL CONTENDER?
I decided to read the novel basically because the incoming film adaptation (it was "incoming" at the moment that I read the book) and I wanted to read the original book before of watching the film. I am aware of the controversial opinions about sensitive social subjects, but I want to keep that out of this and only commenting about my impressions about the book itself. First of all, I doubt highly that the film adaptation will be so crude in certain developments of the story mainly because of that the protagonist of the story is a child. (and I wasn't mistaken about that) And commenting about the shock made for the book, it's obvious that it's provoked due that the protagonist is a child. This very same story using an adult, even a young adult, and this book wouldn't impress anybody. 
HOW MUCH TIME CHILDREN REMAIN AS CHILDREN NOWADAYS?
However I think that establishing that this is a story set into the future of humankind, I think that how the children think, talk and act here is not far-fetched.Maybe in 1985 could be......, but now? Now, children have all the access to internet just like this "futuristic" story sets, and now kids got "mature" very quickly, not a real maturity per se, but the exposure to so much information in the web and the interaction on social networks, forums, blogs, etc... make them to "act like adults" before their time and also it make them to lose sensibility on how treating living things.So, that angle is very visionary. No doubt about it, and maybe because of that, the book will remain as something relevant to read not matter if we enjoyed the reading or not of it.
A BATTLE SCHOOL SHOULD BE STILL A SCHOOL?
Now, the development.I found odd that in his life on Battle School, you only get the practices and exercises, and you only read about how Ender learn from his peers and never from the teachers, it's supposed to be a school but you never see how are "classes" there.It's like if he wouldn't get any valuable education from adult teachers. The book was really interesting while Ender was still very young but as soon he got a promotion to commander, I think that much of the "spark" of the narrative was lost. 
TO BUG OR NOT TO BUG
It's kind of a rule on these military sci-fi stories that they have to battle against insect-like species?Like on Starship Troopers. I guess that it's easier to get a lot of killing without provoking so much social shock. I am sure that when Peter did some awful things to one single squirrel disturbed a lot of people, me included, but killing insects? If a kid kills an animal, it's a sure signal that they have a psychopath on their hands, but killing a cockroach? An ant? A wasp? Unless you are a monk in Tibet, you have kill an infinite quantity of insects on your life and you didn't think twice about it again.So, the easiest way to make people confortable with massive killing is convincing them that they are not killing sentient life forms but dang bugs.And, yes, that not only works here, in this book, but in many dark moments in our history.