Mehr has magic in her blood; a little spark of the divine passed down through generations, gifting some of the Amrithi with amata, allowing them to see daiva and dance rituals that shape the powerful dreams of sleeping gods. When she mistakenly unveils her true potential under a sky filled with dreamfire, it doesn’t take long for the Emperor’s mystics to arrive at her door, prepared with a scheme that will lead her to a mysterious desert temple where the Maha awaits. Here she will be tested and tormented even as raging storms fed by divine anger bring nightmares to life in the desert beyond. It is up to Mehr to prevent their awakening and the violent transition that would wreak death and destruction on the world. But she doesn't have to do it alone...For all the magic, the true heart of this story is Mehr. A girl sheltered from much of the real life by her Ambhan father and the customs of Irinah society, yet still grounded by both hardship and love. The loss of her mother, the petty hatred of her step mother, and the wider persecution of the Amrithi in the city and Empire are balanced by the sharing of secrets and friendship with Lalita, the genuine affection for her younger sister, Arwa, and the ability to hold on to her heritage though her dancing, soothed each time she loses herself in the intricate steps. She’s a striking character: fierce and emotional, daring and resilient, aware of her own faults and failings yet willing to take burdens onto herself to protect others. Never perfect, but intelligently introspective and utterly believable. The reader experiences each crucial development in her sense of self, watching her work through her options to find and make the best decision, the right choice, even as she evaluates why and how others are making theirs. This is her journey, one with physical, moral, and spiritual aspects. It’s developed slowly, but evocatively described, moving through a vibrantly detailed landscape and a culture inspired by Mughal India. There’s a wonderful flow to the language, apparent from the first page to the last. And while there are certainly times when the pacing stuttered, especially the wandering middle section that struggled to add anything significant to the story, the finale upped the tension and had enough surprises to satisfy. Even with the inclusion of darker themes (slavery, potential rape, discrimination, and cult behaviour/indoctrination), this felt like a young book, definitely more YA/teen than adult. Perhaps that’s a reflection of the youthful ever-after romance which, while integral to both plot and character, is still hard going for those who don’t usually favour love stories, especially ones with youthful protagonists. Nevertheless, it was utilised effectively to portray the ways in which bonds of trust and affection between people, romantic or otherwise, can be strong and durable, despite arriving in unexpected ways. The relationship between Mehr and Amun helps them both though the toughest times, teaching them about what it means to know or understand another person and to see them for who they really are. The message is clear: judge people on their actions and not the opinions of others, build trust and hold true to the promises you make to those you love. It’s an uplifting read with an overarching optimism, a kind of love conquers all narrative, but one that involves hard work and positive change. The moralistic vibe is easy to see, but developed within the show, don’t tell framework of character speech and action. And since the author’s argument is for representation, inclusivity, individuality, love, friendship, honour, balance… it’s one I have no issue getting behind. It looks like the next in the series, Realm of Ash, will focus on Arwa, Mehr’s sister, possibly allowing this story to remain at what felt very much like its completed form, but still offering the reader a chance to return to this superbly developed world. But for now, if you’re looking for a story that’s diverse and beautifully rendered with love at its heart, this is well worth your time.ARC via Netgalley