“Both of us then. We saved one another.”So What’s It About?Mehr is the daughter of an imperial governor and an exiled Amrithi mother – exiled because the Amrithi are nomadic outcasts, coveted and persecuted throughout the empire of Ahmba for their magical blood.When the empire’s mystics become aware of her power, Mehr is forced into a marriage she does not want and brought to the Maha’s temple in the desert, where the rest of her life will be dedicated to serving the empire. It will take all of her strength and ingenuity to survive, and she will find enemies and allies in the unlikeliest of places.What I ThoughtEmpire of Sand, as you might be able to tell from the title, is deeply occupied with the matter of empire-building. While in the most literal sense the title refers to the desert setting of the book, I also think it speaks to the unstable foundation that so many acts of imperialism are built upon and the terrible, twisted logic of colonialism. The Amrithi, despised and oppressed and outcast, are in fact the magical basis upon which the success and wealth of the Ahmban empire is built, just as every colonial venture is built upon the backs of the people it despises and dehumanizes. The Ahmbans’ prosperity could not exist without the people they abhor-without the perversion of their traditions, the labeling of them as savages and barbarians- but it is clear that the greater their cruelty and the more extensive the genocide of the Amrithi becomes, the more unsustainable their power grows, the more it slips through their fingertips like grains of sand.In addition to the Amrithi rituals that serve as the basis of Ahmba’s power, the other kind of magic in Empire of Sand is based on the power of making vows. What’s fascinating about this form of magic is that Suri uses it to explore the question of consent in relationship to power imbalances and exploitation – how can consent coerced and what does it mean when someone says yes but has been given no choice in the matter of saying yes? Mehr is magically bound to her husband Amun through such a coerced vow, with the consummation of their marriage acting to imprint it. Extraordinarily, however, Amun refuses to be the perpetrator of Mehr’s entrapment in the vow, providing her a degree of freedom that he has never experienced. When the Maha finds out, he forces them to consummate the marriage, but before doing so they make their own vows to each other, reclaiming some degree of autonomy in an act that has been warped by (again) the cruel logic of imperialism and slavery. They refuse to be bound to each other only through exploitation and the power of outside forces:“I vow that I trust you. That I will keep trusting you,” she said tentatively. “I vow to … to continue seeing you as the man that you are, not what other people have tried to make you.” A deep breath. “I vow to know you.”The gradual blossoming of trust and then love between Mehr and Amun is the beautiful thing at the heart of Empire of Sand. It works because, while every aspect of their lives is dictated by the control of outside forces and the prospect of any other kind of life slips away, their continual choice to treat each other with compassion, trust and humanity becomes the only way that they can resist their dehumanization and lack of autonomy. It works because, nearly powerless as they are, they are both deeply conscious of the balance of power within their relationship and strive to make it as equal as possible under the circumstances in which they exist. It works because of Mehr’s tenacity, hope and willingness to see the goodness in others and because of Amun’s overwhelming kindness and gentleness after a life of knowing little of either. I’m typically apathetic-bordering-on-openly-hostile when it comes to fictional romances, but this romance is both important and moving and fellow fantasy authors would do well to think about the artistry with which Suri has crafted Mehr and Amun’s relationship.Empire of Sand’s setting is based on Mughal India, and the incorporation of magic through ritual dance is one of the most inventive systems of magic I’ve encountered in a while. Here is Suri’s explanation of how she was inspired to create the system:“Hindu belief and epics had a big influence on the magic system. Amrithi rites and sigils were influenced by Indian classical dance (specifically Bharatanatyam) and by the depiction of the god Shiva creating and destroying the world with dance and cosmic fire, which should sound familiar. Hindu epics are rife with vows made by mortals and immortals that have terrible consequences but can’t be broken, and spirits that aren’t quite gods, so they were a great source of material!”Lush and thoughtful, deeply compassionate and romantic in the best of ways, this is an incredibly strong debut novel. The sequel, Realm of Ash, looks to be about Mehr’s little sister Arwa, and will be out in November 2019. I would not change a thing about how Mehr and Amun’s story ended, but I can’t wait to revisit this world again in a few months.