“The dragon within my heart stirred, shifting her wings, as if remembering they could be used to fly.”Before starting this book I've been warned by many people: "A Natural History of dragons is not a book about dragons"; which is, on one hand, correct. This fictional memoir follows the life and adventures of Lady Isabella Trent, a woman who, despite her gender and upbringing, became the most influential expert on dragons of her time. In truth, this book focuses so much on her life and her recalling of the events that the presence of dragons as the subject of her studies, appears, on one hand, to be marginal. On the other hand, even if it was true that Lady Trent's expeditions could have been about any other wild animal, or even just explorations of the wilderness, the fact that the animal in question is a dragon, makes it 200% cooler. Indeed, my favourite feature in this book was the contrast between the old-fashioned, predictable character of Lady Trent (a strong, revolutionary woman of her time who challenges gender stereotypes with the ambition to become a scholar) and the subject of her studies. It felt like seeing Jane Eyre riding unicorns! I adored the choice of the author in creating this element of absurd, and I appreciated the fact that she didn't try to make Lady Trent different from exactly how you would imagine a character like herself in those situations. She is, of course, predictable and the other characters are as well; the story is predictable too, in a way; but, I mean, we're talking about dragons! I thought just the idea of this book was very clever.Finally, the book itself is very entertaining, and I was very involved with the plot. Not so much with the characters, for whom I didn't really feel much affection... The cold, scientific way of writing of the fictional author might have been the main reason for that, but also a general coldness surrounding human relationships in those years. Overall, I found this book very interesting and I would love to go on with the series.