“The dragon within my heart stirred, shifting her wings, as if remembering they could be used to fly.”A Natural History of Dragons is not a classic fantasy story. It reads more like a historical fiction novel in which dragons are a rare animal species. They have yet to be explored and that's exactly what our protagonist wants. The only problem is her own gender! Isabella is a woman and society doesn't even allow her to wear pants, so how could she become a scientist?In this series she tells how exactly she became a renowned dragon naturalist. The first book focuses on the beginning of her career. As a result, the role of the woman is often depicted here and how difficult it is for Isabella to hide her passion for the anatomy and behaviour of dragons. I found this part very difficult to read in the long run because I still get upset about how bad it must have been back then. See? Historical fiction!“Be warned, then: the collected volumes of this series will contain frozen mountains, foetid swamps, hostile foreigners, hostile fellow countrymen, the occasional hostile family member, bad decisions, misadventures in orienteering, diseases of an unromantic sort, and a plenitude of mud.”Unfortunately I expected a bit more from this story. As the book progresses, the focus is more on the problems with villagers and their superstitions. There are problems that seem to be of supernatural origin, but I have to disappoint you here. As mentioned at the beginning, the fantasy part of this book is limited to the existence of dragons.  Here you won't find any magic, mythical creatures or other things that would be different from our real world. Now one could of course hope that there is at least a bunch of interactions with dragons, but most take place when they're already dead and dissected to explore their anatomy. All in all it was a nice story for in between, but I probably won't continue the series, because the reviews of the second book confirmed my opinion and the focus of the book shifts even further away from the dragons and more to political topics.