I like books about people who like books. Perhaps it’s because it immediately allows me to sympathise with the protagonist as a bond of kinship is created. Or perhaps it’s because reading about books is a double winner. Well, either way it creates a novel that is easy to relate to and easy to become engrossed in.  A well created discipline  This is not a standard novel; it is in the form of a memoir of sorts. Lady Trent is writing, what is essentially, her life story. She is now an aged and accredited dragon naturalist without equal; it took her years to become this successful; thus, she narrates the story of how she struggled to become recognised and taken with a degree of seriousness. It began when she stumbled on a book about dragons in her father’s library. She is a woman, and considered a part of the nobility because she is the daughter of a knight. Consequently, society has two reasons to consider her choice of profession inappropriate. As true as that may be to these chracters, it would never stop her perusing her interest. "Be warned, then: the collected volumes of this series will contain frozen mountains, foetid swamps, hostile foreigners, hostile fellow countrymen, the occasional hostile family member, bad decisions, misadventures in orienteering, diseases of an unromantic sort, and a plenitude of mud."This, for me, made the story quite strong. She is looking back on the timidity of her youth with a voice of frankness and wisdom. She has overcome her trials and has been recognised academically. She is a strong woman; she can now see the absurdity of the gender restrictions she was forced to endure; she has developed the confidence to question the ridiculousness of it, and at the same time has captured the essence of her naïve young self. The effect of this was a memoir that felt real; it felt like I’d picked this up from someone’s shelf in a fantasy universe.  Eventually it became a little dry The older narrator is a developed naturalist; she has gone on to achieve progress in her discipline. This is all well and good, but eventually I began to grow a little tired of her narrative. I felt because of the memoir style of the writing some of the chapters didn’t link together particularly well. This didn’t have the flow of a normal novel, and at times I had to glance back at pervious chapters to remind myself of what had happened. In addition to this, at times it felt like she was repeating herself, and her justification for killing a dragon was also plain weak. In it she suggested the hypocrisy of dragon rights activists; they argue that hunting dragons is wrong but it’s ok to kill other creatures in the same way. That’s true: it is hypocrisy. But, that doesn’t justify her argument. She basically says because other people do it, it is then ok for her to do the same. This part of the memoir should have been left out in my opinion because it made Lady Trent look like an idiot, which she is most definitely is not. Overall, I think this book was a really good idea but the execution of it was lacking. I will be avoiding the rest in the serious because, no doubt, I will find them growing tedious on me. I would, however, recommend this to fans of Robin Hobb because Lady Trent reminded me of the dragon obsessed lady in the rain wild chronicles. I’m sure this is merely coincidence, but if you liked that character Lady Trent is very much the same. A natural three stars