Among one of Tolkien's very first conceptions for Middle-earth was as a series of stories, or tales, that are told to a traveler, Eriol, who found the not-so-hidden realm of Valinor. This touches on a lot of the stories and world building that will later be found in The Silmarillion. It's interesting to see what was kept, what was left behind, and how some of the story ideas and characters evolved over the span of years that Tolkien tinkered away at his mythology for Middle-earth. There's a lot here and frankly it's probably not of much interest to a non-Tolkien geek, and even for me it was a bit dry at times. But if you ever want to feel comforted about your own manuscripts going nowhere, or starting and stopping and mutating into completely different stories from what you started with, this might do the trick.I didn't even try to keep track of which of these characters end up as different characters later on (with not just different names, but sometimes different genealogies and motivations), but Christopher does provide that information if it's important to you. This first Book of Lost Tales covers the creation of the Valar and Eä up through to hiding of Valinor, and even hints at Túrin, Luthien, and other greater tales to come.One of the more interesting early concepts was that this traveler, Eriol, could theoretically at least be given an elixir, limpë, which when drunk kept the drinker young and healthy. Probably only of interest since I had recently had a conversation elsewhere with someone who insisted there was a drink the Ringbearers could be given when they got to Tol Eressëa that would allow them to live forever. They didn't have a reference when I asked for one, but now I stumble upon it here. Of course, being an early conception, it's up to each person to decide how much this should play into canon. (And it doesn't make a Man immortal, just youthful. So that person was still wrong, lol. Not that the Ringbearers, being practical hobbits, would want to live forever anyway, especially after everything they went through to get rid of the Ring. Geesh.)I also got a kick out of Tolkien's little notes to himself, jotting down lists, ideas, sentences/paragraphs on random pieces of paper. This was a man who needed a computer. But he'd probably be one of those guys whose desktop would be littered with shortcuts and documents and empty folders. LOL. I don't envy Christopher's job of trying to make sense of his father's notes and journals. Bad enough the man erased his pencilled texts and wrote over them in ink (paper was precious in those days!), but trying to follow the paper trail would leave one with a migraine, I can only imagine. So one down, eleven more to go! (I've read the HoME volumes for LOTR years ago, so I'm looking forward to rereading those.)