💥 Sept. 24, 2020: only $1.99 today!Welcome, ladies & gentlemen, to the lamest review ever! Since this is a 5-star book I figured I might as well write a 1-star review for it. Because, frankly, I have nothing to say about this book! This book is too awesome for words! There's no way I can review this book! Or tell you how much I love the world building! Or write about Kaylin-OMG-she's-so-amazing-I'm-in-love! Or say anything about the incredible cast of characters! Or fangirl about dragons-oh-yeah-dragons-OMG-this-is-so-cool! Or go on and on and on about how gripping the plot is! I'm speechless! All my friends have been waiting for this not-so-small miracle to happen for months! Michelle Sagara did it! I have nothing to say! Time to celebrate everyone! Time to get the maracas out of storage!Okay, so I might be speechless but it doesn't mean I can't unleash too many a few gifs on you, does it now? Ha! You didn't think you'd get out of this one so easily did you? Hahahaha, you're so naïve sometimes.So. Cast in Shadow is about:➻ One very cool badass heroine with weird tattoos and strange marks.Expected a gif of a cool, tattooed, kick-ass chick didn't you? Too bad.➻ Being late. Incurably late.Think I'm going to explain why I'm mentioning this? Think again.➻ Furry people with paws.That's not exactly the kind of furry people I had in mind but you get the idea. Then again maybe you don’t. Oh please stop being so difficult will you? I'm doing my best here. Which isn't much, I know. But I try. That should count for something right?➻ The importance of being earnest ← sorry, couldn't resist it, I'm an Oscar W. fangirl  words and languages.Because yes, words and languages are very cool. And Scrabble is sexy. Well it depends on who you're playing with. And on what your personal rules are for the game. Am I digressing? Thought so. Sorry. Won't happen again.➻ Dragons!!!! Dragons!!!! And surprisingly enough, dragons!!!.Oh relax for a second, will you? Of course the dragons in this story aren't nice and fluffy. This is just an image okay? A pictorial representation of an imaginary being. I guarantee that this book is totally, completely, entirely fluff-free. Who do you take me for? Do you seriously think I'd be raving about this if it wasn't? *eyerolls her little nefarious self to near death*➻ Vengeance. Forgiveness. Redemption. Acceptance.Because NO, this book is not only super extra cool and action-packed. Because YES, this book is about serious, meaningful, life-changing-type stuff, too ← don't you love my descriptive writing abilities? ➻ Paying attention in classYep, your parents were right. Sorry about that. It must come as a shock.➻ Flying people with wings. I know what you're thinking. These people wouldn't fly if they didn't have wings. Please don't be so critical all the time. Open your minds. There is a world of possibilities out there. You just have to be willing to welcome them into your lives. Embrace the impossible. Explore the inconceivable. Delve into the unimaginable ← think I've lost it? Yeah, I think so too. Don't worry though, I'm almost done here ← yep, I think this calls for another celebration.➽ One last thing before I go (see? I wasn't lying for once, I am actually done here): I expected to struggle with this book. I was in a deadly, lethal book slump when I started it. Had trouble getting through 100+ pages books. This book is 512 pages long. I thought it would take me ages to read it. Ha. It took me three days. And that's only because of that annoying thing that keeps getting in the way. You know that silly little thing called real life? I would have read this in a day had it not been for that very inconvenient, bothersome activity known as work. Ha again. ✉️ To those who have read this book: you might think my review doesn't do this fantastic book justice. You might be right. Don't say I didn't warn though. Told you this would be lame.· Book 0.5: Cast in Moonlight ★★★★· Book 2: Cast in Courtlight ★★★★ (make that 3.5 stars. Because I was in a good mood when I wrote the Crappy Non Review)· Book 3: Cast in Secret ★★★ (make that 2.5 stars aka bye bye, Kaylin, it was nice knowing you!)