It's been years since I read this book and if I really think about it no other book has ever made me cry as much as this one did that first time I read it. And I'm not talking about tears silently pouring down my face. I mean ugly cry. Red faced and making-sounds-of-a-wounded-animal-type cry. “And now I need you to do for me what I cannot do for myself. For you to be my eyes when I do not have them. For you to be my hands when I cannot use my own. For you to be my heart when mine is done beating.” It has been a couple of months since the Shadowhunters of the London Institute have had to deal with the Magister. But they know that he will return for Tessa, who for some unknown reason, is central to his plans. There is no escaping him, the Magister has plans within plans and Jem and Will would do anything for Tessa. Even after everything Charlotte has had to do to keep her position she finds herself once again challenged by the Clave and on the precipice of losing the Institute. “You know that feeling,” she said, “when you are reading a book, and you know that it is going to be a tragedy; you can feel the cold and darkness coming, see the net drawing tight around the characters who live and breathe on the pages. But you are tied to the story as if being dragged behind a carriage and you cannot let go or turn the course aside.”I have my own hang ups about some of Cassie's books but one thing she sure knows how to do well is grief and loss. She makes you feel it in her writing as if it happened to you. You can feel the emotion and devastation in the words. The scene where Will's Parabatai Rune starts to fade and he realises that Jem is dead, will always make me sob like crazy.“Will, who loved not wisely but entirely and with everything he had.”I can't say that I am dissatisfied at all with how things came together for Tessa, Jem and Will. Cassie did a great job in making everything work out even though we had to endure all the pain with these beloved characters. So while Tessa/Jem/Will scenes were fraught with sadness, the scenes at the institute with the Lightwood brothers, Sophie and Cecily were a wonderful contrast! Those parts were sweet and funny and just everything. I'm not going to go in depth about every character but there are two I wanted to talk about... Gabriel's character development was so great. His feelings of confusion, grief, guilt and loneliness were palpable. There were times I wanted to shake him for making the wrong decision but at the end of the day he's just a lonely kid. And it made me so happy when he finally started to see the people at the institute as his new family. Charlotte is honestly such an icon. I love her to bits. She stands for what she believes in despite what anyone else thinks. I love how strong she is and she's also such a mom to everyone else despite not even being that much older than them. These characters all mean so much to me. But the great part is that i don't really have to say good bye because Cassie can't help but write more about our favourite characters!! It's time for me to finally read Chain of Gold!!______My reviews for:The Infernal Devices SeriesBook 1: Clockwork AngelBook 2: Clockwork Prince[Sorry no reviews for TMI, I read it too long ago and don't plan to re-read]The Dark Artifices SeriesBook 1: Lady MidnightBook 2: Lord of ShadowsBook 3: Queen of Air and DarknessThe Last Hours SeriesBook 1: Chain of Gold