I finished the book in one breathe and Jem Jem Jem..you are my greatest Sin..mhan you have no right to steal my heart like that. A review must comeClockwork Princess Snippet: Jem and Tessa …Tessa reached to brush the damp hair from his forehead. He leaned into her touch, his eyes closing. “Jem—have you ever—” She hesitated. “Have you ever thought of ways to prolong your life that are not a cure for the drug?”At that his eyelids flew open. “What do you mean?”She thought of Will, on the floor of the attic, choking on holy water. “Becoming a vampire. You would live forever—”He scrambled upright against the pillows of the bed. “Tessa, no. Don’t—you can’t think that way.”“Is the thought of becoming a Downworlder truly so horrible to you?”“Tessa …” He exhaled slowly. “I am a Shadowhunter. Nephilim. Like my parents before me. It is the heritage I claim, just as I claim my mother’s heritage as part of myself. It does not mean I hate my father. But I honor the gift they gave me, the blood of the Angel, the trust placed in me, the vows I have taken. Nor, I think, would I make a very good vampire. [redacted for spoilers] I would no longer be Will’s parabatai, no longer be welcome in the Institute. No, Tessa. I would rather die and be reborn and see the sun again, than live to the end of the world without daylight.”“A Silent Brother, then,” she said. His eyes softened slightly. “The path of Silent Brotherhood is not open to me.Update : 11th july'2012 The cover is revealed and I'm not happy. It not some vintage like Clockwork Angel and Clockwork prince. I heard that Tessa will be in her golden rune wedding dress,and Is that a wedding dress? Also the cover is pretty much similar to the fake ones, I was expecting some originality. Breaking News* Emma from Lady Midnight is a Carstaires, descendant of Jem, does that mean Jem has a slightest chance to live???This is so WOW. Read more http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...This cover is pretty good huh?Look What I got I got the last Image from http://ardawling.deviantart.com/art/C...,