MY HEART HURTS. I'VE NEVER FELT THIS BROKEN OVER A BOOK BEFORE.Words truly cannot express the greatness of this art and perfection. The Infernal Devices certainly became one of my favorite series of ALL TIME. I can't believe it's actually over. And that epilogue. Cassandra Clare can seriously write one heck of an epilogue no matter how painful they could be!The Infernal Devices has been one wild ride right from the very first page of Clockwork Angel. I binge read all three books and I have absolutely no regrets other than the fact that I loathe myself for not reading these books any sooner. Now that I finally completed this prequel series, I can say with utmost confidence that The Infernal Devices is far more superior compared to The Mortal Instruments.The feelings I had while reading first three books of The Mortal Instruments doesn't even come close to the feelings I had while reading this whole series. The Infernal Devices was, hands down, just all around better. The characters were better. The plot was better. Even Cassandra's writing was better. I had no major complaints whatsoever while reading The Infernal Devices.The greatest thing about this series was not the action, not the romance, but the bond between Jem and Will. Although I am a Wessa shipper to the max, I am a Jem and Will shipper first. Their parabatai bond and friendship was just so touching with every page turned. I bawled over Jem and Will's love for each other more than I ever bawled over the romance between Jem and Tessa or Tessa and Will. Though it is true when people say that the love triangle in this series is like no other, I fiercely believe that Jem and Will's bond overpowers that of the romance in The Infernal Devices. I have not read a friendship as fierce and loyal as Jem and Will's. They made this series the masterpiece that it was.I'm glad everybody was able to have the happy ending that they all deserved, just as I had hoped for.My heart aches just knowing that this series is over! I'm afraid to continue on with the rest of The Mortal Instruments because I just don't think it will fill the void that The Infernal Devices has left. This series has truly became near and dear to my heart.