2.75ish StarsThoughts:Retelling? What retelling? Plot? What plot?Yeah… What can I say? This was just mediocre. The idea around this was for a retelling, but the author just used the same names and locations. I couldn’t really get behind this version of Persephone, Goddess of Spring, or her character as the MC. She frustrated me too much, and while Hades is hot and all, he did not convince me he was God of the Dead. He gave more rich, don’t-touch-her, bad-boy, but good at heart vibes. Which is sexy, but not what Scarlett St. Clair was going for I believe. He does call her darling often which gives him some bonus points!The build-up was not there either! I needed more tension and instead we just got them thrown together pretty quickly. Persephone was too much in her head with I want him, I don’t want, I want him. That was pretty tough to suffer through.I only stuck around for the spice! I think overall I expected more. I am a fan of Greek mythology, and I love the spin of modernizing it. This one however just didn’t sell it to me the way I would have liked. I will not be continuing this series.Would I recommend this and to who: Not really unless you just want some brief Greek mythological references and smutPaperback/Hardcover/Audiobook/E-book:  Audiobook - LibbyHow did I discover this:  Mutuals on GR in the past. It was available on Libby, so I gave it a chance!Pace:  MediumCover thoughts:  Very pretty!!POV: Single - PersephoneQuotes: “Hades chuckled, leaning in so that when he spoke, his breath caressed her lips. "Oh, darling. You don't know what I'm capable of.”“Let me worship you," he said.“They say Hades is protective of his realm, and while that is true, it isn’t about power. He cares for his people, protects them, and he takes it personally if anyone is harmed. If you belong to him, he will tear the world apart to save you.” Triggers: Sexual Content, Sexual Assault, Harassment, Death, Swearing, Toxic Relationships, Confinement, Kidnapping, Injury, Violence, etc.