A dark,musical, and twisted love story filled with confusion, hatred, and dread. The second I read the first page I knew there was no backing out of this story. I knew I would start and finish it with no interruption.The moment you start this book, I still can't comprehend how, the story pulls you in like wines wrapping themselves around you and pulling you in. The entire book has this air of mystery surrounding it even if we know what's happening so it constantly keeps you wanting to read more. After I got past the first 3 chapters, I hardly noticed how much time has passed and all of a sudden I was done with the book.We follow Elisabeth as she discovers that the stories her delusional grandmother fixates about are quite real and that she should have heeded her warning. Elisabeth finds out that the Goblin King is real, and now he has taken her sister to the Underworld in order to make her his next queen. Instead, Elisabeth bargains for her sisters freedom and in exchange, agrees to marry him. As she navigates this world of eternal winter, she appeals to another side of the Goblin King and realizes that he is not just the wild, Lord of Mischief he pretends to be.Elisabeth is definitely not one of my favorite protagonists. Whenever she talks about her sister in the beginning of the book, it feels like a part of her is constantly insulting her sister but a part of her remains jealous of her. She is envious of her brother's talents and makes a point of saying she is nothing compared to him, which gets annoying after some time. Her relationship with the goblin king is most definitely not what you would call an ideal romance and a lot of her time in the underworld is miserable. After that you would think I didn't like the book, but I did enjoy it. It was interesting to see how the story would continue and what would happen to the characters. The world was definitely very unique as I don't usually see many perspectives on the 'goblin king' and a lot of my questions do remain unanswered but I look forward to seeing what is revealed in the next and final installment of this duology. This book gets a 4 from me.