"What's the use of running, if we are on the wrong road?"First notes. They are enchanting. Haunting. Alluring- no, no, what are you saying? It's something else. They are the enchantment. They are the ghost and the obsession. They are the allure.The difference is slight, almost indiscernible -one could say it exist only if you will it into existence- but it's there. And since it's there, since these notes don't make you feel, but are the feel, the space between them is filled with promise. The staff is bursting with it, full to the brim, the spaces insufficient, the lines painfully bulging. Paradoxically, they should explode. For the song to fulfill its crescendo, they should explode. Dissolve in the river gushing from within them.They never do.The boy you've been crushing on for so many months you forgot how it is not to adore him, on a lucky and maybe a little tipsy night finally kisses you. He gently backs you in a corner and even more gently kisses you. You are stunned blissful, overjoyed, and you wait for the shock to wear off so you can properly enjoy the moment. You wait and wait and wait, and the shock does wear off. And you wait and wait and wait. Something is still missing, but you are faithful. You can't have waited all that time for such a plain thing. And so you wait and wait and wait. It must come. It's just here around the corner. It must be so. But it isn't, and the magic never comes.The next metaphor is far less pretty, but we are not striving for prettiness.[aside] Or are we?Do you know when your nose prickles, and your eyes start to water a little, and the muscle in you upper lip twitch just the littlest bit? Of course you know. And you know what it means. it means, trivially put, that you need to sneeze. I am also sure you know how unpleasant and irksome it is when the sneeze doesn't actually come.I feel as if I just had to sneeze, and couldn't.•Wintersong (rightfully) has the pretension of bringing you into a magical world without trotting out impossible tasks or adventurous journeys. Since I am not much of a lover of plot-driven books, this is, to me, a real asset. The book hasn't got any plot twist worth the name, and I always appreciate not only this fact in itself, but the audacity it takes for an author to bet on a plot of this kind and stake their hopes on it. The novel, however, presents unmistakable pace issues that, sadly, blemish its faultless façade. For one thing, the first part, concerning Käthe's abduction, drags out much too long, considering that it isn't even the point. The middle part is absolutely dull (I wonder if that counts as an oxymoron?) and grey and uninteresting. The chapter leading up to the grand finale grandly fail to build up the climax. Things happen without a reason or a later reference or meaning, as if they were meant simply to fill up some dozens of pages. Instead of neatly rearranging itself in a ball, the thread of this story unfolds and unfolds meaninglessly, aimlessly, heading nowhere in such a blatant state of confusion I could not, for the life of me, turn a blind eye on it. The rhythm was off; the song did not catch my ear.•More folklore would have definitely spiced things up. Have you ever seen After Earth, the movie? When I'm asked what I think about it, my usual answer is that even though it is set on a post-apocalyptic Earth, it might as well have been set on another planet, and that did not make sense to me. Here is the same: readers, meet the goblin people. They're nasty, they're mischievous, they're absolutely similar to any other sprite you can think of. Some of them are kind of kind. And there are changelings too: they are born from wishes. Think that is cool? Want to go deeper into that? Forget it. Because apparently, the romance was more important than some proper world-building.•Yes, the romance. I unfortunately did not feel it. I understood the development of their relationship on a rational level, but it did not, not even in the slightest, touch me. I tend to blame it on the partial lack of characterization -and I know I have to provide further information on that "partial". The book generally exceeds in tell and lacks in show. Throughout all the first part of the novel, we're told, repeatedly, how Liesl feels miserable, unwanted, neglected, but we're not told why, or rather, we are not shown. Later in the book we are, through (hardly, honestly; but at least we had those) a couple of instances, but it felt like too late. First, you've got to wonder what's gotten into her for about two-hundred pages. Not pretty. Moreover, she comes off as a monotonous and unvarying, in spite of the fact that her change, her growth, is supposed to be the main point of the book. Again, not pretty. I hoped she would become more tolerable as soon as she grew tired of play victim, but although the change really was noticeable in some ways, it did nothing to allow me to connect with her. •Not even the Goblin King fully convinced me, but there's a thing about his character that I absolutely loved and that, in my opinion, wasn't fully developed and exploited by the author: the Goblin King, at first, undeniably acts out of selfishness and spite. He decides to do Elisabeth wrong basically because he's cross with her. He could let her go in the first place, let her forget him and live, if without excitement, without fear as well, but he doesn't. And not because he wants her to bloom; only because he wants to indulge his caprice. Such malice is so unusual in ya books, I couldn't help but adoring it, and I am a little bewildered S. Jae-Jones didn't play on it more, because it really looks like a winning point to me. Besides, it makes the character development stand out even more, because at last he regrets his actions and really lets her go. To me, this was the point of the Goblin King's character and the most beautiful and poignant thing about him, but it kind of got lost among many other less striking things, who knows how.On the other hand, since, as I already said, the timing and the writing of the book don't really do their job, his background (and its revelation too) left me completely indifferent. And, sorry if I repeat myself, the problem lied not in the contents, but in the form.•The ending is the strangest and most curious and most surprising thing the novel, in general, has to offer. It is neither happy nor sad, but a perfect middle ground. It is the ending that finally, actually shows Liesl's full potential as a heroine, because that's what Liesl is in this ending, a heroine. She is confused (in the sense that her character seems to be clueless as to where its narrative purpose lies) and ineffective throughout the whole book, but now and here is where she finds herself. Loved loved loved it. •But since this is no candy land, of course the ending too must cross me somehow. The world will die and wither if the Underwold doesn't receive a sacrifice. So Liesl sacrifices herself; we even see how the world actually threatens to plunge into eternal winter when she so much as steps outside of her husband's dominion. And then she can just un-sacrifice herself like that, and the world continues existing happily ever after? Does this mean, what? That a sacrifice is no longer requested? If that's the case, why, and how is that possible when the whole plot basically stems from that? The word that automatically pops to my mind is convenient. I really can't stand when authors do that, bending the rules they set themselves so the story can flow on undisturbed. If you don't want to or can't stick to those rules, change them, switch them with new ones, and if you need exceptions, arrange for the exceptions to be rules in the first place. What's the fun part of creating, if not this?•All the other characters were too poorly shaped for me to really form an opinion about any of them -which speaks volumes. Basically, Wintersong features only three characters, the third being made one half from Käthe and the other from Josef.•I'll puke my guts out if I hear again the phrase "music in [whoever's] soul".➽ If I could talk music, I would probably find the right terms to wittily sum this up talking about clefs and moods throwing around random Italian words (and believe me, that I can do), but I don't talk music, not at those levels. So I'll put it simply: although the potential was all there, the execution wasn't satisfying to me. It felt hollow and unsure; very heartfelt indeed, and passionate, but paradoxically I could only take it in with my mind, my heart untouched, and, as if that were not enough, my mind as well found a thing or two to say. What I am profoundly grateful for is that ending: that alone is surely worth the whole book, which, I hope, will prove to be nothing like any other ya you've read before. If that's a good or a bad thing, it's up to you decide. But if you ask me, I most certainly believe the former is the one.