Ahh!! *satisfied sigh*  I just re-read this book, and enjoyed it even more the second time. Up from 4 to 5 stars. So far, THIS book, #5, Silver Borne, is the BEST in this series. Enough plot and plenty of action, but also character driven and relational. Romance, too. I loved it!By the way, Mercy is not a typical stock UF character. Quiz yourself with 15 questions about Mercy's age, ancestry, beliefs, occupation, etc.Mild Spoilers Ahoy: Mercy and friends must rescue an old bookseller (Phin) and Gabriel (Mercy's teenage assistant) from the cruel, ambitious fairy queen, who enthralls her captives under the hill (Underhill). They must not let said fae queen (once called Daphne) get her hands on Silver Borne, a magical artifact of great power, crafted centuries ago by Ariana, under duress. Such an evil fae villain (was Daphne the fae in A&O, book 2?)Relationships: Samuel is ready to give up on life, for he has no mate. His wolf is taking over. Mercy helps him stay in the game long enough for a lost love from his ancient past to appear. That relationship was initially built over troubled waters, but the old feelings run deep, so they work it out. Nice!! I wanted more of this story line, but nice. I hope to see more of Samuel and his love in future books.Meanwhile, Adam and Mercy are trying to develop telepathic mating bonds and pack bonds, and Adam is trying to ease Mercy into bed, but someone in the pack wants Mercy dead, and someone else wants Adam's position as Alpha. The action never ends, with bounty hunters, fishy fae thugs, explosions, hospitalizations, kidnappings, enthrallment, and dirty pack politicking (jockeying for position). We also get silver garlands, glowing rocks, and a new home for Mercy. Lots of great interactions with primary and secondary characters, with some showing increased loyalty and courage, and others revealing corruption and cowardice. Secondary characters include Samuel (werewolf, Bran's eldest), Zee (powerful metal-work fae "gremlin" warrior disguised as old mechanic), Jessie (Adam's 17-year-old daughter), Ariana (a "good" fae), etc. Bran plays a fair sized role, too, and his son Charles from the wonderful Alpha and Omega series makes a telephone appearance. We also see Warren/Kyle, Ben, and Daryl/Auriele, as well as Mary Jo/Henry, and Paul.Sigh! After so much worry -- thinking he'd lost Mercy several times -- Adam's wolf is finally content. The two engage in one delightful (but not explicit) love scene. Even better, Mercy has learned to enjoy the sex, the mating bond, and the pack bonds. She is finally able to let the past go. Just right. ;-)One gripe, a decided spoiler!!  Why did Briggs let the  manipulative werewolves live? The ones who spoke in Mercy's head at the bowling alley, and lured Adam into a burning building, and challenged Adam to a fight to the death within hours of his terrible burn injuries? Kill them. Kill. Them. Don't send Henry to learn some manners with Bran! Don't shake Paul's hand. (Well, maybe Paul is okay, and Mary Jo certainly did atone, so she's okay. But not Henry.)  I wanted to see justice, punishment suited to the serious crime. Harsh, ya think? Content: Some rather gruesome bloody scenes. One sex scene, but it's sorta fade to black. The language is mainly clean, which I rather appreciate (Adam, old school, won't let anyone swear in front of Jessie or Mercy).