4.5 stars - great!
This book was yet another winner for me in this series. I really loved it. I laughed a couple of times. . .I cried possibly a couple of times (but definitely after the end). :-)I wrote the first paragraph of this review immediately after finishing this book. Time is not doing it any favors. Had I written this review yesterday, after finishing it, it probably would have been a five-star story. Now, though? Now I'm thinking it was just 4.5-stars-great.The main reason for this downgrade is, I think, because I am tired. This was the third book in a row where Mercy was under the spell of the Big Bad. First, in Iron Kissed, she was drugged by Fairy Wine. Then, in Bone Crossed, it was vampire mind control (granted, she wasn't really "under control," but her memories were tampered with). And in this book, she's in thrall thanks to some sort of Fairy collar. I'm tired of this. Sure, Mercy is not the strongest of protagonists, but surely we could read about her getting into some other type of trouble?And I'm afraid that my feeling tired of the "thrall" storylines is now coloring my impression of this book. It was still a great story, though.One other problem - but this one doesn't have any bearing on my feelings for the story - is that the short story, "Silver," in Shifting Shadows: Stories from the World of Mercy Thompson, was said to be the first half of this book. It really wasn't. Had I not yet read "Silver," I doubt I'd have felt lost when this book got to "that" part. (Meaning the part where Ariana was revealed.)"Silver" turned out to be a three-part story (so far, at least): Part One was "Silver." Part Two was whichever book told us what happened to Bran afterwards (this was one or two books ago, I think). And this book was Part Three, giving us what happened "next" for Samuel and Ariana.I guess I haven't talked very much about this book, have I? Sorry about that. I mentioned laughing out loud a couple of times. . . I LOLed on page 61 and again on page 161. :-)The first line that made me laugh was more of a scene. It was when Zee said Gabriel's family car's mother was a cola-machine. lol ;-) (That was in Chapter 4.)The second line was in Chapter 9, when Mercy is talking to a few wolves and Jesse. She is reminded of a time when she "had to take over my sister's Girl Scout troop when my mother had been sick. Fourteen preteen girls, a tableful of werewolves--there were certain monstrous similarities." LOL ;-)I also mentioned that I might have shed a tear or three sometime in the middle-ish. But I really cannot remember when - or why - that might have been. I definitely shed a few tears in the end, though.One thing that is good about all of these "thrall" storylines is that they certainly ratchet up the tension. I was so relieved to be able to close the cover of this book that I cried a bit. The ending in and of itself was not one that otherwise would have made me cry. Though it was sweet. :-)Here is what happens: Ariana shows Mercy and Adam what the book was hiding - the small silver bird from "Silver" - and. . . Adam put his hand on my shoulder, bent down, and said, "Such a small thing to cause so much trouble." And he kissed the top of my ear. [fin] :-)I should probably also mention that I'm happy that Samuel seems to be "back" now that Ariana is back in his life. But that seemed too easy. Sure it could be the beginning to seeing a once-again-healthy Samuel, but I have a sinking suspicion that this is also the end and that Samuel will be fine for the foreseeable future. Especially since his troubles weren't mentioned again.So this was a great story for me. I loved it, yadda-yadda-yadda. But. . .I really hope that we're done with the "thrall" storylines. :-/EDIT/UPDATE: So I just realized that I forgot to mention. . .once again we had a book that excluded Stefan! No vampires at all were in this book, but Stefan was at least mentioned. Still, though, I wish we could have all of the major secondary characters appear in every book, even if only in a very limited way. :-/