⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Still Too Little Adam*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱
 
Re-read: 06.07.2019
The fifth book in the series, the Volkswagen mechanic and a walker (a magical being with the power to shift into a coyote at will), Mercedes ‘Mercy’ Athena Thompson (how old is she?), gets a call from her former boss' son who is worried about a friend, and of course Mercy can't stay out of anything. So she goes an investigates and finds herself in bigger trouble than she realized. And than there's the pack, who many does not accept a coyote as the Alpha's mate. On top of that, there's problems with roommate, who seems to have given up. Overall the book is actually pretty ‘eh’. There's too little Adam in this book. He only shows up when the danger(s) are over and Mercy's done it all, and it's getting a bit annoying. He also gets hurt a lot and while I like the concept of the werewolves instincts of challenging when the Alpha is hurt, I don't like that it takes away the feeling of ‘pack’/family. I also struggle with Samuel being in love with Ariana, has been for a very long time and we never knew about it so it all felt so sudden, and not very well developed. Then of course there's still my struggle with connecting with Mercy. I should also say - which I'm sorry for - but I struggled to feel/see Mercy and her mate's bond/love. And that ruined the whole book for me.Other Characters:The list is long so I put it in a spoilers tag.→ Adam Hauptman, the Alpha of the local werewolf pack (the Columbia Basin Pack), and his human daughter, Jessica ‘Jesse’ Tamarind Hauptman (15).→ Samuel ‘Sam’ Llewellyn Cornick, his father, Bran ‘The Marrok’ Cornick, and his brother, Charles Cornick, a financial genius. In the US, all the packs follow the Marrok, a title taken from the name of one of King Arthur’s knights who was a werewolf. The Marrok and his pack have oversight of all the werewolves in North America. Bran's mate, Leah. Samuel is a medical doctor.→ Siebold ‘Zee’ Adelbertsmiter of the Black Forest, Mercy's former boss, had retired when he sold her the place, but he’d come out once in a while to “keep his hand in.” He's also a Metallzauber/gremlin (fae).→ Medea, Mercy's cat.→ Stefan ‘the Soldier’ Uccello, a vampire and a somewhat friend of Mercy.→ Elizaveta Arkadyevna Vyshnevetskaya, the cleanup crew leader. She was the most powerful witch in the Pacific Northwest. Her grandson, Robert.→ Tony Montenegro (33 or so), a cop and Mercy's friend.→ Darryl Zao, Adam’s second. He was a Ph.D. engineer working at the Pacific Northwest Laboratories in some sort of government hush-hush project. Auriele, a chemistry teacher at Richland High and Darryl’s mate.→ Warren, one of the good guys, a hero, Mercy's favorite in Adam's pack. Warren is also Adam's best friend and most trusted in the pack, and his third. He was also a lone wolf; simply because he's gay and most of the werewolves in power in the US had been born in a time when homosexuality was anathema, even punishable by death in some places. → Kyle Brooks, Warren’s boyfriend and a divorce lawyer. Warren works for him; Kyle’d shaken a few trees, bribed a few officials (probably) and maybe blackmailed more, and gotten Warren a private detective’s license. Warren guarded clients and did quiet investigations for Kyle’s law firm.→ Ben, a werewolf in Adam's pack. British.→ Margi, Mercy's mother, Curt, Mercy's stepfather.→ Tad, Mercy's old assistant and Zee's son.→ Signora Marsilia, Mistress of the Mid-Columbia Seethe (vampire).→ Mary Jo, a firefighter with the Kennewick FD, and pack member to Adam.→ Sylvia Sandoval and her son, Gabriel Sandoval (17), Mercy's office manager. His sisters, Tia, Rosalinda, Sofia and Maia. → Wulfe ‘the Wizard’, a vampire who looks like a teenager.→ Honey, and her mate-and-husband, a plumbing contractor, Peter Jorgenson, werewolves in Adam's pack.→ Uncle Mike, owner of a bar/tavern meant for the fae. Is fae himself.→ Naomi and Rachel, bloodgivers/sheeps to Stefan.→ Estelle ‘the Teacher’ and Bernard, old vampires belonging to the Mistress. Two of the few vampires strong enough to live on their own. The others being Stefan, Andre and Wulfe. Of the five most powerful vampires, only Stefan and Andre are truly Marsili's.→ Dr. Stacy Altman, a folklore specialist from the University of Oregon, the police's expert consultant. Is the great Carrion Crow (blind), one of the Gray Lords (the leaders of the fae)?→ Tim Milanovich, part of an anti-fae group. Killed by Mercy in book three after he raped her. Mercy, with the help of a Oak fae, kills him at the end of book four. → Kelly Heart, the bounty hunter from TV.→ Phineas ‘Phin’ Brewster, a Half-blood Fae bookkeeper who owns Brewster's Library; he has enough Fae in him to do a little magic.→ Alicia Brewster, Phin’s grandmother?, aka Ariana ‘Ari’, a fae. Becomes Samuel's mate. They've known each other for a long time. 

“No apologies from you,” he told me, his voice soft enough to melt my knees and most of my other parts. “First of all, as I already pointed out—you would make the same choices again, right? So an apology doesn’t work. Secondly, you, being who you are, could have made no other choice. Since I love you, as you are, where you are—it hardly makes sense for me to kick about it when you act like yourself. Right?”“People don’t always see it that way,” I said, stepping into him until our hip bones bumped.He laughed, a quiet sound that made me happy down to my toes. “Yeah, well, I don’t promise I’ll always be logical about it.” He gave a rueful glance to my broken counter and the cash register on its side. “Especially at first.” His smile dropped away. “I thought you were trying to leave me.”“I might be dumb,” I told him, putting my nose against his silk tie, “but I’m not that dumb. I’ve gotcha now, and you aren’t getting away.”

Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Adult) Urban Fantasy (M/F)Series: - Series, Book Five.Love triangle? - No.Cheating? - No.HEA? - Yes, for now?Favorite character? - Adam Hauptman.Would I read more by this author/or of series? - Sure.Would I recommend this book/series? - Sure.Will I read this again in the future? - It's me... I do love re-reading. New Rating - 2.5/3 stars (I gave it 4 stars first time reading it).