Realm Breaker has an interesting premise but sadly it didn’t live up to it. While the world-building was well-executed and we had a ragtag to save the world (which I usually love), the story itself was underwhelming mostly because of its bland characters.The central plot of this book is saving the world from the bad guy Taristan who is trying to open doors (in a way) to other dimensional places. Where there are usually monsters. Then, he can rule the world -he’s backed up by the evil god “What Waits” (very original). I won’t go much in the blurb but that’s the jest of it. And oh, Corayne’s blood and a special sword are needed to close them. First, the structure of the book wasn’t as good as it can be in my opinion. This book had too many pages and too long chapters. Yes, the world isn’t simple but that’s no excuse. I was extremely bored reading it. Having six points of view certainly didn’t help either. Ridha’s chapters were also not needed, imo the story could’ve been told from Corayne, Domacridhan, and Erida’s perspectives. The prologue should be Andry’s and the epilogue is Ridha’s last chapter. I really hate it when authors add more points of view than it’s needed and it certainly wasn’t useful here. It only prolonged the book and did nothing to develop the characters. Something that annoyed me was the lack of a map. I really hope my ebook had some error… this is a journey. They go from a place to another. A map is always needed in my opinion in these cases. I’m sure Aveyard can afford to hire an illustrator to draw a map. I have no idea where they were going except from x to z but not of the “grander” road.update: apparently, the hardback does have a map actually, not sure about the paperbacks. Now I wonder how many maps I've missed since I read ebooks mostly. I wish it was included in the ebook as well.Before I move on to the characters, I need to mention how the slow-paced slowly killed me. I had no interest in reading this book and it was more like a chore than something to enjoy. I ended up wasting my precious little time this month because I simply wasn’t in the mood for this book. The plot nor the characters could hold my interest even though this is usually my cup of tea. I really love a team from different going to save the world and the setting was interesting. And since the plot wasn’t compelling, it’s usually upon the characters to make the book worthwhile. Unfortunately, they made it worse.The characters were, like others already mentioned, bland. I honestly can’t think of a better word to describe them. They weren’t bad, they weren’t annoying, they were just there. Dull. Uninteresting. One-dimensional.Corayne, the main lead, had no personality. She wants to discover ok but that’s about it. I didn’t hate her, she didn't annoy me, the poor girl didn’t do anything wrong but then again she barely did anything. My suggestion for her to be one of the primary perspectives is maybe then she could’ve had more character development and charisma. As for Andry.. again, he’s nice but that’s about it. I have nothing to say about him. Just bland.Domarcidhan who is supposed to be this terrifying strong immortal acted stupid and was simply said, mediocre. It’s not that I disliked him, he was just meh. Now, Sorasa, I didn’t like yes. She was so hard trying to be badass and mysterious.. made me roll my eyes. I usually love assassins but I was underwhelmed by her arc. We were told to think she’s tough and all and probably she is but her character was more show than tell to me.Erida was better because she’s an antagonist and we read from her perspective; I didn’t love her but I also didn’t struggle reading her parts.As you can see, there is not much to say about the characters over than their lack of personality. It’s been a while that I read such boring characters, usually, we at least have 1 pov, not 6… I did not care about their journey at all and found it difficult to concentrate. Kept hoping it gets better… it didn’t.On a more positive note, I highly appreciated the lack of romance, it wasn’t needed and it wasn’t there! There were some hints but that’s about it.One last thing I want to mention is that there was a big inconsistency/loophole in this book. Please let me know if I missed anything because I frankly wasn’t invested in the story hence wasn’t fully concentrating on it. So a sea creature attacks the ship of Meliz but it’s later mentioned that she’s okay/not mentioned that anything happened to her. Nowhere did Corayne feel the pain of a parents’ loss. Later it was mentioned casually that this sea creature killed her mother. Sorry, wut? Did I miss a page or something?I wasn’t a fan of Red Queen but wanted to give this book a shot. It promised an “epic” story and there’s nothing epic about it other than the idea behind it. It terribly failed to deliver a YA fantasy that can hold its own among a very competitive genre nowadays. Needless to say, I will not be continuing with this series. I might still give Aveyard a third chance but we shall see about that. I also don’t expect this book to be a hit like Red Queen but you never know nowadays.