As someone who has read all of Ishiguro's previous works I was of course more than excited to finally get my hands on a copy of The Buried Giant. Oh boy, if only that excitement hadn't been sourly crushed by the actual contents of this novel. The Buried Giant is very different from all of Ishiguro's other novels. In fact it's so different that I can't even compare it to any of his previous novels. The main difference is of course that this is essentially a fantasy novel. Now I'll be the first to put my hands up and admit that I'm not a massive fan of the fantasy genre. I enjoy the occasional Terry Pratchett novel and I've dipped in and out of the Narnia universe but that's where my fantasy education ends. If there was any author who could get me excited about a fantasy novel, it was Kazuo Ishiguro. This novel is set in the 6th Century, contains references to ogres on the very first page and there's a Beowulfian quest involving a dragon. I'm very much out of my literary comfort zone. The novel begins with two characters, an elderly couple, Axl and Beatrice. At first I really enjoyed these two. In fact I really enjoyed this novel. For, like, the first fifty pages. I really wished Ishiguro just stayed with these two. I enjoyed their company as they set off on a quest to find their son in another village. However, it's when a certain character from Arthurian legend turns up that this novel fell apart in my hands like wet cake. For the remaining 300ish pages this novel stops being Tolkien and turns into Monty Python and the Holy Grail. In fact, when this figure from folklore appears, this novel stops reading like literary fiction and starts reading like, well, fanfiction. At least that's how I felt. And I'm pretty sure Ishiguro didn't intend spending ten years writing Merlin fanfiction but here we are. Nobody was expecting this to be The Remains of the Day (ah, The Remains of the Day, where has the author who wrote you gone?) but since this is Ishiguro's first novel in ten years (with the exception of his rather enjoyable short story collection Nocturnes: Five Stories of Music and Nightfall from 2009) we deserve more from this. I want to burst into Ishiguro's study and shout, "You wrote The Unconsoled and now you think you can pass off this sub-par fantasy novel as part of your oeuvre?!". Listen Ishiguro, if you're reading this, I'm not as angry as I am after reading Never Let Me Go (that terrible, terrible novel that I'm still trying to forget) but ugh, you had ten years. Joyce wrote Ulysses in seven. Look Kaz, I just don't know anymore. Three stinkers in a row? (Don't think I've forgotten about When We Were Orphans) I just don't know what to do with you anymore. I'm not angry Kaz, I'm just very disappointed.