Edit (04/01/2018): Commentary from Present Day MeOh man, sixteen-year-old me was so angry lmao. Bless his soul. This review was fun to look back on, since I actually did read the entire series. All six books, all terrible. I guess this was also during my Brony phase; I noticed the Rarity GIF immediately. This series was one of those ones that offended me with how bad it was, if I recall correctly.My old review (somewhere around 2012):Hokay. So. Instead of reviewing the book, I've decided I'm just going to review the whole series right here.It is, and I say this without even an ounce of doubt, the worst series I have ever read. Of all the worst things, this is absolutelyThere will be spoilers in this review, but you know, who the fuck cares?I wasted my time reading this whole series, because it was basically for nothing. I recently realized that all of Ever's "struggles" in this series are only for the sole purpose so that she can break the curse that's been preventing them to have sex. Thus eventually having sex. Which they do, in the last book's ending, predictably.Ever is the stupidest heroine in the history of YA. Every book ends with her making stupid choice after stupid choice. In Blue Moon, she listened to the bad guy, thus unleashing the curse that I was talking about earlier. In the third book, she chose to save her "best friend" Haven (who was actually a poser bitch that was barely even nice to her) over curing the curse, and by saving her she made her an immortal as well, which I could not get over cause she was insufferable enough mortal. And whadaya know, she turns into the villain in book four. Shocker.And then of course, there's Damen Auguste. Arrogant, muscular, perfect, rich. He can paint better than Picasso. He's absolutely perfect and flawless in every way possible. He's also a controlling and selfish douchebag that irritates me to no end. Honestly, that's why he and Ever are perfect for each other. Because they're both so equally annoying.And this curse thing. God, it dragged on and on for like four books with no resolution. Basically, at the end of book two, Ever listens to the villain─yet another example of her utter stupidity─and ends up getting tricked by him. Sure, she cures Damen of this "disease" that the villain put on him, but there's a catch: they won't be able to touch or "transfer DNA". Meaning, they won't be able to fuck. Of course, Ever is all freaking out about it cause she thinks that if they don't fuck sooner or later Damen will leave her, since all hot guys are like that, aren't they?Throughout the rest of the books, all Ever wants is to get the antidote, but due to her making stupid choices in every book, it never works out. And I think during book three or four or something, Damen starts to be a little more minimalistic─dressing less fancy, getting rid of his expensive car, etc─and you know what Ever does?She whines about it.Damen is actually making an effort to get rid of his cocky, arrogant self─to be a "better person" if you will─and you whine about it? My god, do you guys SEE how absolutely ridiculous her stupidity is? I wanted to just reach into the page and knock some sense into her.But back to the whole antidote thing, when I saw the cover for book five, Night Star, I thought "Wow, is she finally going to get that stupid antidote already?"And you know how she gets this "antidote"? She doesn't. It turns out that there's this magical tree with a magical fruit that when you eat it, it makes you "truly immortal". In other words, able to fuck. And no, unfortunately I did not make that up, it's actually how it goes.So in the end, they do fuck. And that's it. Done. Ever claims that they're now "truly together" and everyone lives happily ever after.So what was the message Alyson Noel gave? You have to have sex with someone to be "truly together" with them. What a powerful, inspiring message for young readers everywhere. Bravo, Ms. Noel.To put it shortly, this series is about two selfish people who want so badly to bump uglies. Further, I think that this series is nothing but a waste. A waste of time, space, paper, pretty much everything you can think of. I still ask myself every single day why I ever chose to go through with reading all of the books. I'll never get back those brain cells I lost.You may say, "Whoa, isn't that a bit harsh? It can't be that bad, can it?" The reason why I may come off as very angry in this review is because it's not just the horrible kind of bad, it's the offensive kind of bad. The oh-my-god-why-do-you-even-exist-on-this-planet kind of bad. The entire plotline of the series in general is pretty much the piss frosting on top of the shit cake, because all this time I'd been reading a series that's solely about two selfish asshole teenage immortals who want to fuck that they're willing to do anything for it, the female one being more desperate than a thirsty reality TV star. That's all there is to it!This is not the type of shit that tween girls should be reading and fantasizing over. They should not take the message that this book puts forth about having sex with someone being the only way to prove your love or make a relationship last. It's just disgusting and wrong on so many levels, and I can't believe the gall of the author to implant this abysmal moral on young minds. That may have not been her goal; she may not have realized it, but I thought that it was crystal clear.So I advise you, dear reader: if you value your well-being, stay far far far FAR away from this atrocity. Don't make the same mistake I did. You still have the chance to save yourselves.Take it.