Prologue:There was an echo of three parts. The first echo was the most obvious one. It told of promises unfullfilled, questions unanswered and time invested. It was an echo of frustration.The second echo was more subtle. A yawning of the mind reverberating through synapses untrained. It was an echo of boredom.The final echo felt like a spiral, winding its way ever downward, digging deeper into the matter of things. It was an echo of reviews within reviews within reviews.Chapter 1:"The wise man's fear," the reviewer said, "is a book you can't simply review." He shifted toward his audience."Why is that?" one eager listener asked."Because one doesn't simply dislike it like a twilight on an autumn eve. It's neither black, nor white, nor is it colored in fifty shades of grey.""But you loved the first book, didn't you?" the eager listener went on."Indeed," the reviewer said. "I loved the Name of the Wind."Another member of the audience stood, waving a spoonful of chilli. "With my magic beans here, I can call the name of the wind as well. And guess what, it stinks!"Nervous laughter from the audience vanished quickly after looking at the reviewer's stern face."One does not mock what is disliked!" the reviewer said. "You treat it with respect, cause others may hold dear what's not to your taste."The spoon swinger sat down, his face burning like a red hot chilli pepper."So, you can't use humor in a review?" the eager listener asked."Oh, on the contrary," smiled the reviewer. "Let me tell you of my first approach to review then."Chapter 2:It was the time, when 3D was watched with glasses on your nose. I sat in the cinema to see the newest Johnny Depp movie, an epic 5 hour piece about film-making.I had my glases on, a six-pack of beer and my nachos. I always had nachos. With cheese that could stretch as long as the wheel of time.As the movie started I was excited. There he was. Johnny Depp. He entered a white room. Nobody entered a room like Johnny Depp. It was graceful, an art of walking never to be seen again. A walking dead to our modern society, lost on an island of purgatory.In the white room a simple chair awaited Johnny and there he sat. As simple as that. Sat there like noone else could, beautifully, but without moving again.After two hours of watching Johnny Depp sitting in 3D, I fell asleep and found myself transported into the white room."Hello there," said Johnny Depp."Wow, I mean, hi," I said."So, what are you doing in my movie?" asked Johnny Depp. Nobody asked a question as eloquently as Johnny Depp."What are you doing here, Johnny Depp? You do nothing since 2 hours, you just sit there! Where's the movie?" I asked."Well, does there have to be action in it? Can't it just be beautiful without anything happening?" Johnny asked uniquely."But what's the point?" I inquired."It's not a movie. It's a movie about movie-making and therefore it needs no real movie." "Now my head hurts," I said. "You confuse me in my own dream. Wait a minute. It is my dream, isn't it?""It is, I believe," said Johnny. "Let me guess. You ask yourself why you're talking to me, when you could talk to, let's say, a sexy actress?" He smiled at that."Yeah," I admitted, shifting my foot uncomfortably."Allright then, which sexy actress do you like?" Johnny asked."Rachelle LeFevre, she's adorable!" I said without hesitation."Can't do that, she's still trapped under the dome at CBS. You know how they are, you don't wanna mess with them.""That's true," I said. "Well, may I then speak with Natalie Portman?""Of course," said Natalie Portman. Wow, this Johnny Depp was a fantastic actor!"What a great white room this is," she said. "It would be the perfect set for a movie about movie-making.""Really?" I asked."Definately! So, what do you want to talk about? The Black Swan?""Oh wow, I didn't know you were into the New Avengers, Natalie Portman. She's one of my favourite characters there."Natalie looked puzzled and remained silent."Well," I said. "I want to write this review about a book I wasn't that fond of and I don't know how to start.""Really? For somebody who doesn't know how to start, you wrote a lot already. Do you think somebody is still reading at this time?""Probably not," I admitted."Anyway," Natalie said. "Shouldn't you start with summary of what happened?""I'm not so sure there happened anything, like in this movie.""So, who is the main character?" Natalie asked."He's called Kvothe." I said."Shut up! I know him. He's great, we're Facebook friends!" Natalie produced a laptop from out of nowhere. That Johnny Depp is really sleight of hand, if you ask me. "So, let me see," she said. "Ah there he is. Look at his status update: Still at the university, took a term off to work for a foreign government. Did a lot of camping there, picked up karate and a new language, got laid a lot. Fun summer.""Does he say anything about his relation with Denna?" I asked."Relationship status says: It's complicated," replied Natalie. "So, where is your problem? This seems to be great content for a nice novella of 150 pages.""Yep, but it's a 1000+ pages book." I said."Is it beautifully written?" she asked."I suppose," I supposed."Then where's your problem? Get your shit together!""Wow, Natalie Portman. You just said "shit" on a public review.""I said "fuck" on Conan O'Brien last year, so what?""True dat. So, one last question, Natalie. If you know Kvothe, why is he so irresistable to women in the book. I mean...would you...you know...?""Oh, of course, if I wasn't in a happy relationship and had a baby. He's just great, it doesn't have to be logical. You know, it's still called fantasy."Chapter 3:"That wasn't much of a review at all!" screamed the eager listener."Does it have to be?" the reviewer asked."Of course! What good is a review, where you review nothing?""It has the same value as a story about storytelling without telling a story." the reviewer explained."But aren't you afraid that nobody likes your review?""Not at all. If you like a story without story, then you like a review without review. And if you don't like the review, you may not like the story and therefore like the review. I can't loose," said the reviewer."But what if somebody likes the story, but hates your review?"The reviewer smiled."Now that, my friend, is a wise man's fear!"Epilogue:There was a hope of three parts. The first part was a rustling of pages, of future deeds and revelations. It was a hope of satisfaction.The second part was a quickening of pace, of new places and faces. It was a hope of excitement.And the final part was crackling of marble, the screeching of hinges, the opening of a new path.It was a hope of a door of stones.