“True evil wore the skin of good men. It uttered prayers, not curses. It feigned mercy where there was only malice. It studied scriptures only to spit out lies.”- This quote sums up the book. I could just leave it here, but let’s be realistic. This was dark! I’m not really that religious, but I might need some holy cleansing after this. Our main character, Immanuelle, is sort of an odd one in the Bethel society because of many things, including her race and her mother’s reputation. For some reason though, she still really loves Bethel and does what she feels needs to do when the society goes through plagues. She discovers things about herself that could help save Bethel. What is Immanuelle’s role in saving Bethel?The prophet….man I hated that man with every fiber of my being. When a society or a community perceives one as the leader, how far are they manipulated into thinking that he’s allowed to do wrong with no consequences? Abuse of power was a heavy theme in this one and it really did hurt to read. How does Bethel expose the hypocrisy of the prophet and all who stand by him? This is also a puritanical society so we do get a lot of Biblical themes. We get the classic “When a man sleeps with a woman, it’s obviously the woman’s fault for tempting him" because men apparently can’t make their own decisions. There are more guys, so be prepared for a lot of eye-rolling. Also, the cruel punishments jeeeeez. I loved how Bethel and Ezra question many of these beliefs. We get a lot of other characters as well. Some that stood out to me were Leah, a good friend who is betrothed to the prophet; Ezra, a son of the prophet, who helps her in discovering Bethel’s secrets; and Martha and Vera, her grandmothers who both play a big role in Immanuelle’s character development. Of course, we can't forget Miriam, Immanuelle’s mother, who dabbles in some really dark stuff that comes back to affect Immanuelle. The imagery of this book was amazing!!! I could literally picture everything, as dark and disturbing as they were, in my head. As much as I loved it, it felt like Henderson focused more on this aspect than giving us more in the plot. The story was amazing, but I just needed MORE. I can’t explain it exactly, just know that I needed MORE. I believe Henderson decided to not continue with the sequel for this and decided to start a new project. I wouldn't have minded another book, but this ending was satisfying enough to definitely not need another one. I look forward to seeing more of the darkness that Henderson obviously has a talent for.