Well wasn’t this the historical horror/fantasy story that we’ve all been secretly craving?? A dark and twisting novel about religion, patriarchal structures, othering and reclaiming your power, The Year of the Witching was quite a debut from author Alexis Henderson.Immanuelle has lived in Bethel all her life. Isolated from the rest of the world, her repressive religious town is surrounded by a sinister forest known as the Darkwood, where no person is permitted to enter. And nobody has, not since Immanuelle’s mother disappeared years ago before coming back heavily pregnant with her. Orphaned after her mother’s passing in childbirth and her father’s execution, Immanuelle has always felt the darkness of the woods calling to her, no matter what the Prophet says. And now that she’s found her mother’s diary, she’s ready to explore the pieces of herself that she’s long kept hidden away.This is a fantasy that’s different than most others I’ve read in the genre. It’s definitely an adult fantasy, so keep that in mind when making comparisons, but I feel like it still had a differing tone. Much of the plot moves like historical fiction, likely based on a specific historical time period (I am bad at identifying stuff like this), even though this world is an invented one. The inhabitants of Bethel are terrified of all things magical and actively shun it. So the only time that Immanuelle is able to access magic is primarily when she ventures outside of her community. As a result, I think many of the non-magic portions of the book felt slower comparatively, which led to an uneven pacing at times.The thing that kind of bothered me at the end was how the witches of the forest were built up then quickly discarded. The author makes the point several times that they were previously women who were abused in one way or another and turned to magic for protection, only to then cast them in the faceless evil villain role. Why do they all have to die but the Prophet gets to be spared? Immanuelle is depicted as being the moral compass of this story and I took issue with these decrees of hers at the end. To me, a feminist fantasy that punishes female villains but spares that male ones (who had a large hand in creating the female ones in the first place) is majorly missing the mark.I do think it was a beautifully atmospheric novel featuring feminist themes, so of course I was going to pick it up. I’ll probably continue with the series too, whenever the next book is announced. I’m really curious to see how Henderson expands on this world because it’s been very self-contained so far, and there’s a lot of potential for exploration here.**For more book talk & reviews, follow me on Instagram at @elle_mentbooks!