“she dreamed of scarecrow witches burning like torches in the night, tangled limbs and stolen kisses. in her nightmares, she saw the lovers toiling in the dirt, grasping at each other, teeth bared, pale eyes sharp with moonlight.”a witchy fantasy-horror about a teenage girl trying to break a curse while living under the yoke of an oppressive patriarchal regime.firstly: this book was not for me. loved the prose, but disliked almost everything else. now that we’ve got that out of the way...immanuelle moore is a sixteen-year-old biracial girl who lives in bethel, where the religious teachings of the holy father rule the day. the leader of their farming community is a figure called the prophet, whose power extends to burning witches at the stake, upholding an inquisition-like prison system, and marrying as many women as he can. these women get marked as property with a carving of a star on their forehead once they’re wed.yeah. fun times with misogyny.decades ago, there was a holy war between the prophet and apostles of bethel and the witches of the nearby darkwood, and the prophet won. the inhabitants of bethel follow the teachings of the holy father, and the witches the teachings of the dark mother -- the latter of whom is, of course, demonized by the prophet.we follow immanuelle as she tries to explore her own heritage while resisting the mysterious calls of the witches from the wood… until a deathly curse sinks its claws into bethel.thematically, this book tries to tackle a lot.there’s the obvious oppressive patriarchy versus the free-spirited independent witches, but there’s also racism at play. black people who live in bethel are allowed only on the outskirts and have their own churches and villages, which are often quite poor. because their dark skin color is associated with the evil mother, they are seen as unclean by extension.immanuelle, the child of a white mother and a black father, struggles with this immensely. living with a white family, she knows very little of how ‘the outskirters’ live, and part of her story is reclaiming her heritage and discovering her roots and history.i thought that was one of the more poignant parts of the novel, even if it does show up as an in-depth exploration rather late (about halfway through the story).another thing i greatly enjoyed was its prose. the year of the witching is a very readable book that’ll make you turn its pages fast, and yet it doesn’t sacrifice any of its haunting descriptions to do so. and i commend henderson for maintaining that balance so well.the gothic horror descriptions are definitely my favorite thing about the reading experience. the darkwood where the witches live comes to life in a deeply unsettling, intangible way, and the stained glass and heavy wood cathedrals almost loom over our characters like the oppressive regime that they represent.in terms of atmospheric set dressing and imagery, this book is a delight; dark and brooding and dangerous. lots of blood, violence, and other disturbing imagery keep you on your toes and serve its branding as horror rather well.however, aesthetics and atmosphere weren’t enough to save the story for me.characters, worldbuilding, and plot all felt a little too flimsy. the book seems to lean very heavily on shorthand and convenience, and even thematically, i couldn’t fully connect with the message of the story by the time the main plot got wrapped up.first of all, the puritanical society in this is not exactly subtle. characters all have biblical names, and of course the scary witches are named lilith, jael, mercy, and delilah. it’s a small and controlled world, which the prophet has arranged on purpose so he can play tyrant over his flock: borders are closed both ways, there’s torture chambers in the basements, and apparently a super powerful law enforcement body that can hunt down anybody.women are married off by the dozens to men old enough to be their grandfathers as soon as they menstruate for the first time. such as leah, immanuelle’s best friend and one of the prophet’s many wives, who only ever seems to pop into the story to illustrate just how badly women are abused.but at the same time, these violent cornerstones of society are weirdly absent from the rest of the world, and the prophet’s motivations seem inconsistent at best.small town markets sell plenty of books with information on other countries in which women are, y’know, not treated like cattle. immanuelle browses these on your average day at the market. the bookseller’s even like, “ohoho, look at my cool books!”my man, i know you’re not from the other side of the border because you’re not allowed in, so (1) where are you getting your books from, (2) who is reading this apparently semi-illegal shit in a not very literate community, (3) why are you openly advertising it in a marketplace, and (4) why are women allowed to read these??and then there’s the fact that the dark-skinned outskirters practice a completely different version of the prophet’s religion in which witchcraft and the mother have a prominent place, and yet… the prophet appears not to care about this at all. people get burned at the stake for adultery and witchcraft, but not for having a worshipful portrait of the evil mother of witches in their church.likewise, the darkwood is right fucking there, and the prophet is just letting it be and not burning it down even though lesbian witches are rolling around in the dirt and pregnant witches are dragging women into ponds. root of all evil; we’d better leave it there.immanuelle is also pretty much allowed to go everywhere, explore everything, and discover whatever she needs to as the plot demands.the witches let her in and out of the woods, and her new buddy ezra, the prophet’s son, easily gets her access to restricted libraries with forbidden knowledge and even census records in the prophet’s own fucking cathedral-mansion. wow!because yes, the prophet’s son, indoctrinated from birth by the most evil misogynist in the history of bethel’s religion is of course The Wokest Man in Town™ on a mission to save The Women. i mean, to support immanuelle to save the women. and he likes her because she can read and she wants to fight the witches’ curse. we love an independent woman!… sigh.what tripped me up the most, however, was the ending. it felt like a thematic mess.throughout the whole story, the witches are pitted against the religious misogynists. it’s an integral part of the main conflict of good versus evil. immanuelle’s eyes are wide open by the end of the book as she realizes that the prophet and those who follow him represent what’s truly wrong with the world, and the text openly acknowledges this multiple times. “good people don’t bow their heads and bite their tongues while other good people suffer. good people are not complicit.”“true evil, immanuelle realized now, wore the skin of good men.”so what happens when immanuelle is faced with the prophet himself, fully aware of his crimes and how consciously he has committed them? how does she deal with a tyrannical, virulent, and violent abuser; a rapist, a pedophile, and a murderer?she proclaims that, “today, we choose mercy” and LETS HIM GO. i shit you not. there is zero on-page justice for this guy. ZERO.[warning: graphic descriptions behind the next spoiler] this is a man who has forced himself on ten to twelve year old girls, including immanuelle’s best friend leah. someone who beats women daily and carves symbols into their foreheads. who has tried to execute his own son and immanuelle (and tortured them both), wanted to take immanuelle’s mother for a wife and rape her, and murdered her lover by having him burnt at the stake. he has also caused his youngest wife leah to die in an absolutely HORRENDOUS graphic birth scene in which a midwife is forced to cut her baby out of her womb while she dies screaming -- because he wanted to keep it a secret that he was boinking her while underage and not married.he has tortured and raped and murdered countless people. as immanuelle even says herself at one point: “to be a woman is to be a sacrifice”, in reference to all the blood and pain the church is built upon.… i really have no words for the ending.i suppose henderson was going for a break-the-violent-cycle of the past kind of approach, but that is kind of difficult when you have such an absolute shitstain of an antagonist. and the witches that are supposedly just as ‘evil’ as the religious misogynists are women who were abused and raped and burned for YEARS and finally wanted to take their revenge regardless of any innocents who got in the way.and the text even explicitly asks the question if ‘innocents’ are truly good people if they continually turn a blind eye. it’s wild! methinks false equivalence is at play, and that left a decidedly sour taste in my mouth.in conclusion: we could’ve had it all, but it ended up being a big disappointment.if you can look past the convenient plot, meager worldbuilding, and the thematic mess that is the ending, you might still get a creepy autumn read out of it because the prose is great. otherwise, it’s a no from me.✎ 2.5 stars.