i really tried everything to give this book a chance, tried to justify everywhichway all the problems i had with it just to give it a passing go, but this is just an impossible book to like. i wanted to dnf it countless(!) times, as is obvious since it took me a MONTH to get through barely 400 pages. i don’t have clear cut problems here, just.. i’ve never read something so passive. so much happened here, from a personal pov, but also in the world and the empire itself, and yet? not a single part of it rang true, or ever actually felt like was happening. it seemed like a story you’re hearing from someone with no personal stake in it, who heard it from someone who heard it from someone who heard it from someone who, also, heard it from someone else entirely. no depth, no perception, no emotional weight. the story flows by without a bump (which is odd, in and of itself) but more than that,.. it was like the author’s just trying to rush you from one plot point to another. there were way too many convenient coincidences, more plot holes that were thrown in(??) randomly for no discernible purpose and then just never mentioned again. all of this, and more, led me to never feeling immersed in the storytelling and cost me whatever interest i initially had in the book. the characters were painfully underdeveloped,- 400 pages and i don’t know a single thing about them, truly. it’s like i’ve never come across them at all? ning, the main character, read like someone watching everything unravel in the sidelines and passing mild, uninterested commentary on it. (on her own life!) (spoiler: there’s a part where she’s trapped in the dungeons, about to be executed the next day, and yet, she managed to be offbeat and impersonal about that too! why? why are you about to DIE and still can’t provoke a single emotion in me?)she was really disturbingly passive; a fish caught in the waters, and while i really do try to find parts of female leads i can like, even if i don’t like them, there was just.. nothing here to work with. none of the other characters had anything remarkable to remember them by, the romance was barely there, too.. up-and-down for two people who’ve barely just met, and have no real growth or intimacy together. i don’t care about them enough to care for the hurdles!i’ll give that the premise of the book sounds good, but the actual grit of the story is very simple, already very overdone, and magic steeped in poison brought nothing new to the table. on contrary, it did the exact opposite,— managed to be surprisingly mediocre. and while the writing style itself is.. nice, i guess, it was entirely overwhelmed by weak characters and weaker monologues. rants aside, for me; there just wasn’t anything in this book worth any time reading it.