Quickest buddy read in the world with my adventure buddy Nina (seriously, people, less than a day. That's how fabulous we are). Now be good and go read her review, go."Do any of them realize that Simon Wolfgard is falling in love with Meg Corbyn?"Who the heck cares about any of them? The only ones who must realize that soon are Meg and Simon. And if they don't realize it, don't come blame it on me if Simon is kidnapped by a mysterious criminal who's his -almost- namesake and who may or may not have the intention of marrying him.If someone asks you, you don't know who I'm talking about."Steven Ferryman was there, of course. He might know things Meg wanted to learn, but he would never be as thorough about cleaning the salt and butter off her fingers after movie night."Do I even have to start raving about the cuteness of this man? He's so cuddly and overprotective and generally gorgeous that he sings his own praises. I don't care if it's still February, I just elected him my biggest fictional crush of the year (and for sure one of my whole life). And in Murder of Crows there are so many Simon/Meg moments, I thought I was in heaven. Me happy.But the book is not called Simon Wolfgard: between fur and sex-appeal, so I think the moment has come to talk about what the book actually is about.•The first book in the series, 
Written in Red
, is a book I utterly adored. It pains me to say that Murder of Crows, yes, lives up to the expectations, but not fully. While Written in Red is a masterpiece of balance, its sequel is far less uniform: for one thing, it presents a significant lack of action, to the point that if you asked me to sum up the main and most revelant events that takes place I could meet your request just by telling you what happens in the last fifty or so pages. Pages that are undoubtely really intense, but...• ...but that, at the same time, feel a bit anticlimactic. Moreover, in this conclusion Meg and the other protagonists don't properly have an active role, meaning that they're not directly involved in that little action there is, and this may be disapponting, but (this is the review of buts) ro me it wasn't that much.• The lack of action the whole book experiences (differently from the deflated conclusion) didn't bother me one bit. I've always been more interested in the characters, in their personal development and their interactions, so that the plot is something in regard of which I am more willingly to forgive or turn a blind eye. And the characters here are just so well-written and peculiar as they were in book one, so I had a great time even when all they did was talk and discuss with each other or watch movies or play tug or cook spaghetti-Ahem.• Meg's character is great. She sometimes reminds me of Snow White with her innocent, sweet vibes, but you know deep down there's a lot more to her. I didn't think I could enjoy a female character who jumps on a table screaming at the top of her lungs because of a mouse, but I do. I so much do.•I missed Sam. He was one of the characters I loved the most in book one and here he has no more than two or three scenes, and I really felt his absence. So summing up, what I want from the next book is 1) a kiss (and I already know I'm bound to die in grief in my own personal vale of tears) 2) more Sam (I'm not much hopeful about this one either). But figures if I don't want to read it right now all the same.