Let me start by mentioning that if you're a brony, this book is totally for you. There are colorful ponies in this book that can affect the weather and kill everyone. Think "My Little Pony" on steroids.Okay, so I loved this book as much as the first one. Meg is settling in to life with the Others. She has been accepted by all of the different creatures in the Courtyard, and they love and protect her. They also still find her very amusing because she is "human-ing" around them and they really don't get humans at all.When a group of Others from a different area came to have a meeting with Simon and the other leaders, they were considering killing all of the blood prophets to stop the availability of the drugs that are made from their blood. They considered blood prophets a terrifying weapon, and had heard that they were called, "Namid's terrible creation." Simon was worried about Meg's safety, until he took some of the leaders to meet Meg and found her on a table screaming because a wolf pup had brought her a mouse as a gift and was chasing her around with it.
"Simon?" Charlie finally said. "It was just a mouse.""I know," he replied."A small mouse."He sighed. "I know.""So," Alan said after a long pause. "That's Namid's terrible creation?""Yeah, that's Meg."
Suddenly, blood prophets weren't so terrifying. ;)But, the fact that they were being used to manufacture a drug that could hurt the Others was a problem, so the Others decide to try and figure out where Meg was being held so that they can deal with the situation.There is a lot of action in this book, but the best part, to me, is the interaction between the humans and Others. These books do such a great job of making me care about all of the different people/creatures. There are alternating POV's, and yet I love them all. I don't feel like I want to hurry back to the other person's story, like I do in a lot of other books like this.I really can't recommend this series enough!(although I do need to warn that there are some pretty violent and disturbing things happening to the girls that are being held. It might not be a good idea for someone under 16 to read.)