3.5 starsThe Guinevere Deception is the first instalment in Kiersten White's new series: Camelot Rising. This book takes Authorian lore and provides a new twist. Guinevere comes to Camelot to marry Arthur- but she is not the real Guinevere, she is Merlin's daughter, sent to protect King Arthur from an unknown threat. You definitely do not have to be familiar with the surrounding mythology to enjoy this. Prior to picking up the book, the majority of my knowledge came from that one scene in 'Night at The Museum' with Hugh Jackman. In parts, that was beneficial because I was shocked at some plot twists that those who know more about the source material may not have been. However, Kirsten White does change enough elements of the story to make it new and unique, and not a carbon copy. Probably my favourite part about this book was the atmosphere. Especially for the first half, the story felt magical and enchanting. I don't know what it is about castles, knights and medieval settings- but they always feel familiar and comforting to me. Ironic considering I have obviously never experienced that time period or setting, but nevertheless true. I think it just reminds me of my childhood, reading and watching movies about kingdoms and magic. “There was good, and there was evil, but there was so much space between the two.” The magic system was really interesting and unique. Knot magic isn't something I had read about before, and it added a really interesting layer to the story. I don't quite understand the extent of the powers, but I expect it will be developed a bit more in later books. Mordred was my favourite character. His character was complex, twisty and well developed. Arthur is a close second. I loved seeing how much he cared for his kingdom, but I feel like I don't know him as much. I hope we see some of his flaws in the sequels because as of now he doesn't really feel like a real person. Guinevere was probably my least favourite character. Her actions and some of the things she said had me face palming. I also think her fear of water was a bit extreme. I just want to know- does she shower if she can't be near water? Never mind, I don't think I want to know. “Sometimes we have to hide from what others see in order to be what we know we are.” I didn't really care about the plot that much, and found the ending slightly rushed. My main critique was that I wanted moremore Mordredmore Arthurmore Merlinmore magicOverall, while slightly lacklustre and surface level- I have faith that the story and characters will develop more as the series goes on.