Azalea and her eleven sisters are in mourning for their mother. Their father, the king, is inexplicably cold toward them, presumably because he's got too much manpain over losing his wife to bother with anyone else's feelings. Bereft of their father and mother both, the girls turn to dancing in an attempt to remember happier times, except dancing is forbidden when you're in mourning - so their dance teacher is sent away, their endless supply of dance-slippers dries up, and all their clothes are dyed black. Enter Keeper. Keeper maintains a magical forest beneath the castle, in which a grand pavilion stands ready to supply the princesses with music, food, and solitude. Of course, the Keeper turns out to be of the moustache-twirling variety, and it all goes south from there.There are elements to this story that positively glitter with potential: the beautiful underground pavilion with its lush descriptions and sinister host; the stories of the dead king's maimed victims; lord Teddie in all his awesome glory. Unfortunately, these things are all largely ignored in the main plot, or else thrown around like ornamental confetti to dazzle the reader in between increasingly tedious developments. Let's start with Azalea. She's a listless main character, and watching the story unfold through her eyes is a claustrophobic experience. She's stuck in a castle, she's stuck in mourning, she's stuck in a patriarchy, she's stuck in a co-dependent family, she's stuck in the role of default-parent to her younger siblings. I kept waiting for her to break free, but she's so perfectly groomed for her role as princess that by the time we're halfway through the book it's pretty clear she would never dream of suggesting that she could be queen without a husband, or else choose her own husband, or abdicate, or do much of anything. Even toward the climax of the book, Azalea's father literally has to take her by the hand and thrust her "weapon" for her. She's just that ridiculously passive. All she and her sisters think about is dancing, clothes, and boys. They have a private teacher who's supposed to give them lessons every day, but they let him doze at the front of the classroom while they discuss dancing, clothes and boys some more. Presumably the younger sisters don't even know how to read, but who'll care as long as they can dance?As for the sisters, they're mostly the same character--a sort of blob of cutesy kids who never make much fuss--except for Clover and Bramble. Bramble, I feel, would have worked a little better as the protagonist of this story. Or, better yet, Lord Teddie. Lord Teddie investigating the mystery of the twelve dancing princesses is a book I'd read and reread in a heartbeat. He's the only sane presence in the whole book, a sort of Bertie Wooster character whose reactions to all the melodrama is spot on (and usually hilarious) - and his attraction to Bramble is believable (though I didn't care for the notion that since Bramble was too immature to accept his proposal, her father should accept for her), whereas Clover's boyfriend is a pseudo-hebephile creeper and Azalea's is so bland I kept forgetting his name.Clover is a train wreck. She's pretty. She's sweet. She likes corsets (so comfy!). Everyone adores her. Aaaaand she goes into rages during which, for example, she massacres a sentient tea set and drowns the feebly struggling remains. When her love interest is sent a letter by a woman more close to his age, she goes into another fit, tears the letter up, and decides no one's going to marry him but herself. She's 13/14 at this point, and the man in question is probably somewhere in his late twenties or early thirties. At fifteen, she's embroiled in a secret affair with this man, who's trying to convince her to elope (because that's any grown man's rational response to a young teenager throwing herself at him, apparently). I suppose we're expected to find this romantic? She has no education, she's seen nothing of the world, experienced very little, and she doesn't have any friends outside her own family... so, presumably, her gentleman is drawn to her "inner sweetness", or whatever justification old men use when they want to marry pliant young girls. And no, I don't care if "that's the way things were back then". It's gross. Azalea even briefly reflects on how Clover's basically fallen for the first guy to ever show her an ounce of kindness, but then lets it go, because this isn't the kind of book where girls do anything to resist the status quo. Whoever gets the dreamiest/richest husband wins (and the prize is probably more dreary descriptions of dancing and swooning and weeping).Stylistically, I felt like the writer was trying very hard to be Ysabeau Wilce, which, unfortunately, only works for Ysabeau Wilce. As a result, the lovely quirky bits and the sometimes absolutely brilliant descriptions (loved the liquid pearls in the underground forest!) soon gave way to Azalea spending an indecent amount of time "crying out" her lines. Exclamation points abound! There's crying, weeping, whinging, gasping, more crying, tantrums... it's exhausting and degrading for everyone involved. By the time the Big Confrontation finally happens, the character's behaviour resembles nothing so much as the flailing of an old-timey silent film star, pounding her dainty fists ineffectually at the bad guy's chest until her dad and assorted boyfriends show up to save the womenfolk. At this point, I threw up a little in my mouth.