’And love is more important than justice,’ Seedless said.‘Sometimes. Yes.’Seedless smiled and nodded. ‘What a terrible thought,’ he said. ‘That love and injustice should be married.’The main merit of A Shadow in Summer lies in how its Author bound ideas into words and then formed them into a language comprehensible for us, ordinary human beings. As to the lives these ideas led, the choices they made, the roads they had taken and the tales that could be told about it - that is altogether a different matter. Abraham’s worldbuilding ideas take us to the world where sophisticated and developed albeit waning civilisation of the East struggles for power with quite primitive and brutish ascendant culture stylised in the western manner. The Summer Cities of the Khainate live off on the scraps of an imperium gone by. They are still resplendent, still rich beyond measure, overflowing with goods and pleasures; each of them independent and yet interdependent - immersed in the ebbs and flows of international trade. Arrogant yet secure in their frivolities by the powers wielded by poets. For you see, only the poet is able to grasp and then hold the andat. What is the andat? Andat are like thoughts made real, ideas tamed and given human shape, thoughts translated by the poet into a form that includes volition, more difficult to hold each time they escape. Inevitably, the more scarce they become, the greater treasure they were. Especially that when faced with the raw but crude power of other nations, the cities of the East had the andat as their ultimate and only weapons. “I am a slave, my dear. The slave you hope to own.”I admit, I thought the idea of the andat ingenious in its simplicity. But Mr Abraham surpassed all my expectations when like a fine wordsmith, he wrought a form for his idea and then breathed life into it creating Seedless. Seedless, neither the slave nor a puppet and a little bit of both, simultaneously compassionate god and malefic prankster, neither a monster nor a beast and yet so very elemental and inhuman, is a character so total that he could wander through the pages of Dostoyevsky or Mann, if any of them ever bothered to write fantasy, and never would be out of place.‘I think we’re past things like forgiveness,’ she said. ‘We’re the servants of what we have to do.’This is so precisely because characterisation is the second pillar elevating A Shadow in the Summer above the average. It is not merely the gallimaufry of protagonists. The art lies in how with each word they gain depth and colour, how the cardboard figures absorb conventional tropes and fold them into intricate shapes. This book is like a human origami. You know I look askance at cliches. But here cliches flare with new life; the coming-to-age, the star-crossed lovers, the late lovers, the love triangle, the revenge, the from wares to whores (aka. the bordello tycoon trope), the master-apprentice, the younger son - you will find them all in this novel. But don’t greet them like old friends - they will be as surprising as they are disturbing and inconvenient. Each of the protagonists stumbles upon the very bedrocks of their own personalities and things that render them unique prove to be both a blessing and a curse. This was the main reason why I couldn’t fully connect with any of the heroes and heroines. They were endearing and annoying at once. Too much like the living people, like us: hard to classify, impossible to pigeonhole. None of them has come out whole from the adventure, none emerged strengthened and refined. Not something you usually get in fantasy, more frequently these types of personal stories are found among the classic novels. “You aren’t a killer. I’m a poet. If we’re going to stop this thing, one of us has to change.”Among all the characters Amat definitely stands out. It might be that I have a soft spot for elder women in a genre conquered by hordes of cocky adolescents. More probably though, it is how masterfully her arc was written; she reminds me Bujold's characters from the World of the Five Gods. In a word where action only complements a word and the form it has taken, she is a shining supernova. I really loved how in this book language is more than words. The protagonists communicate via countless poses and each message has a double, sometimes even triple meaning. Speaking is never reduced to merely talking: “He answered with a pose so gentle and complex - thankfulness, requesting patience, expressing affection - that it neared poetry.” I was taking poses as I read on! I also appreciated how the tale gives a laudation of conceived life, regardless of its form and stage. What are the weaknesses then, you ask? While the personal stories and arc are superb, the overall plot is convoluted and a bit artificial. The personal stories touch but do not meet head-on. They tangle, but the pattern they form is haphazard, inchoate and disjointed. Furthermore, the whole stratagem develops very slowly and not without bizarre hurdles. The balance between what happens, the meanings the events are supposed to carry and then the actual weight of the narrative lacks equilibrium. Not deeply enough nuanced tension between the lack of free will and the lack of freedom, the general nature of the andat versus the specificity of a flawed design, inconclusive character development of the supposedly main hero built on a twisted sense of loyalty and justice, especially when juxtaposed with his initial rejection of a system that demanded cruelty from him up to the breakup point and lauded him for the breaking - all this together meant that when I finished the book and I was both satisfied and dissatisfied, very disturbed and unsure what to make of the whole story. I was torn and conflicted in my rating between 3 and 4 stars, but taking into consideration the avalanche of reflections this book has awakened in me, I give it a benefit of depth and raise my rating. A Shadow in Summer is definitely worthy of your attention. However, you need to judge very carefully if the novel is actually for you as it does not cater to all the customary needs of an average fantasy reader. Despite its shortages, I am taking a pose of invitation and encouragement. Bonus: Read Q&A with Daniel Abraham on Fantasy Buddy Reads. Also in the series: 2. A Betrayal in Winter ✮✮✮✮✮3. An Autumn War ✮✮✮✮4. The Price of Spring ✮✮✮