What an uneven read! I was not impressed with the beginning, but then the idea of the magic drew me in, and then the plots grabbed me, and then it got gross and boring and then I fell in love with one of the characters, and then the author threw that all away.Weird, but not in a bad way I guess?CONTENT WARNINGS: (a list of topics):  child abuse, slavery, abortions (forced), adultery, drug use, violence towards women, fat shaming. Things that were enjoyable:-Heshai. Poor, flawed, sweet Heshai. -The magic. Poetry as magic was neat! I wish they'd done more with it than they had.-Amat. A character with a disability who is strong, powerful, and desirable! That was very cool to see.Things that threw me off:-The love triangle. Ugh. Do I have to say more? I don't like romances. I don't like them in the rain, I don't like them on a plane. I don't like it when there's two, adding more just makes me blue. I don't like romance, Sam-I-Am. And this was a weird 2.5 romances.-The poses. Okay, a pose for greeting, a pose for strength, a pose for apology...things that are nonverbal big ideas, I could see that working into a normal language. But to have a formal verbal language, a common verbal language, nuance in those languages, honorifics based on personal relationships, AND formal, informal, familiar, polite, rude, clumsy, and a myriad of other expressions of body signs is...ludicrous. Also I felt like I was in Madonna's vogue, everyone had to strike a pose every time they entered a room. Interesting thought, but not a great book feature.-The plot. I...don't know why people would care? It was an evil idea, yes, but grand scheme of things, I wasn't sold that it would achieve the ends anyone seemed to think it would.-And then it didn't matter anyways. I guess the author agreed with me about the plot because he took the much more straight-forward approach at the very end anyways lol.-Repetitive phrases. There were a lot of words the author used way too much. I think the word "stone" showed up metaphorically 4 times in 2 minutes. "His eyes were like black stones and he gazed on her. Under that gaze she felt a stone grow in her stomach...'be like stone, she thought, do not regret this.'" and so on. -Not enough magic. The WHOLE premise of this book is about becoming someone who can control a sort of magic. And we see one aspect of that happen twice. I really wanted more focus on what this would mean.-Inorganic characters. Nope. Didn't buy 'em. Well, aside from Amat and Heshai. I liked them.Not sure if I'll continue. It was fine, I'm led to believe they'll all be up to more shenanigans, I just don't know if I care what they are.