This series has lived in my heart for twenty years so is there really any surprise this is five stars? Even though it's a reread and there was nothing new to experience or learn, knowing the course of this story didn't mean I cried any less. And I cried a lot."Don't you long for something different to happen, something so exciting and new it carries you along with it like a great tide, something that lets your life blaze and burn so the whole world can see it?"DAUGHTER OF THE FOREST told of Sorcha's story and SON OF THE SHADOWS reunites us with this family and a new generation of characters; ones to love, ones who break your heart, and ones to hate. Liadan knows the horrors her family has endured for peace, for happiness. She wants no more than to stay home, unmarried, and care for her parents, tend to the household. She is much like her mother in stature, in the arts of the stillroom and healing, but though Sorcha had her own bravery, her own strength, Liadan, when forced to rise to challenges she never imagined, is even stronger, fiercer, so much in possession of her mind that she will not be swayed by the forces around her; be they old and ancient, fey, wise, or family.The greatest tales, well told, awaken the fears and longings of the listeners. Each man hears a different story. Each is touched by it according to his inner self. The words go to the ear, but the true message travels straight to the spirit.Secrets and betrayal begin to fester amongst a family that cannot risk being left vulnerable to unfriendly forces, to the darkness that nearly overcame them once before. Mistakes are made, truth obfuscated, and thus Liadan is forced to navigate, to unveil, and to rescue her family, her love, and her future."You captured a wild creature when you had no place you could keep him."An interesting twist to this particular instalment, however, is how we see the unintended consequences of the previous book's happily ever after. So often we get that ending, everything is great, and life goes on. But reality is never so tidy and events can be twisted and a person can be left hurting. Not in the way you might think, though. And I really loved how Marillier made this connection and created a way to go back without undoing any of the hard-earned events of book one."What about his mother? What did she have to say about it?""She was a woman. The tale does not concern itself further with her."For a story written so long ago, what surprised me was how, sometimes, Marillier's narrative or dialogue was almost wry in how she, and her characters, navigated the inequalities and double standards of gender. Nothing so overt the way we have these days, where the goal is to make a point, but there are subtle digs, bits of dialogue, observations. So much is careful, considerate, and also very purposeful. Which is probably why so much of this book, this series, is devastating. Because there is so much imbued, so much that resonates, and it comes through.Much like with book one, I have never tried to review this, and once again I know I haven't done this book any justice at all. It's impossible to express my love for this book because it's honestly so deeply embedded in my soul. I read this as a young human and it's been with me, and I've relived it, over and over throughout the years, and we are irrevocably entwined. Some books you lose the love for other the years, as your taste or perspective or style as a reader changes. This book, this series, isn't one of those.(yes, I did steal most of those last paragraph from my review of DAUGHTER OF THE FOREST, and yes, I am calling myself out for it)"Come, dear heart. Lean on me and let us walk this path together."Lastly, I just want to give a huge shoutout to the Sevenwaters Squad with whom I spent a very fun -- but emotionally draining -- weekend buddy reading this book. Most had never experienced this before, having come only recently to this series, and while I loved having the excuse to revisit, I loved living through it with their eyes, too. Can't wait for book three, and the rest of the series, with you all!---This review can also be found at A Take From Two Cities.