Last year I read Daughter of the Forest, the first book in this series, and absolutely loved it. So I went into this book with very high hopes. Luckily, this book did not disappoint and I still absolutely adore the way Marillier weaves Irish / Celtic folklore into a historical setting (10th century Ireland). It was really great to read about Liadan and learn what happened at the Sevenwaters after the first book. The mix of old and new characters worked really well and the character development was great. I enjoyed reading from Liadan's POV however at times she was quite judgemental of others which was a little frustrating to read. I now can't wait to read the third book to see who will tell the next part of the story.As these books are adult they feature some difficult topics so I will say trigger warning for mentions of domestic violence. Marillier's books always make me cry as she doesn't shy away from putting the characters into difficult situations. She writes their struggles so well and really makes the reader feel what they feel.I love, love, love the world-building in these books. I love that it's set in 10th century Ireland. The Irish folklore is woven into the story so perfectly, it makes me so happy. As with the first book, much is set inside the forest at Sevenwaters and she writes each landscape so well. I really like the way she writes the druids and subtly mentions the conflict between the old ways and Christianity at that time. Every time a character mentioned Alba (which is Gaelic for Scotland) I was so pleased!One thing I really loved was  reading about a character who had a baby. I don't think I've read many books where a character has a baby and then brings them along with the big climax of the book. So that definitely added more tension and worry! I enjoyed this book, but I found that the ending dragged a little. I don't know if I am just used to books which end quite abruptly after the main event, but I found myself eager for the book to end and to be done with their story. This book, more so than Daughter of the Forest, left me thinking about all of the loose ends so I can't wait to pick up the 3rd book.