The second instalment in the Sevensweaters* series is like an ugly jumper presented by your most favorite aunt. You will never wear it and you will never tell her about it for the sake of good times you spent together.There are six shirts sweaters in the Sevensweaters series. The first one was an enchanted one and the moment you put it on, it put you under a spell. Needless to say, starting the Son of the Shadows I expected a tale of similar quality. What I got instead was a garment badly knitted, made of an itchy material, hideous in terms of fabric, colour and patterns. Are you ready for an ugly sweater party? In the middle, the jumper has a huge snowflake. The main heroine, a girl called Liadan (Sorcha's daughter), suffers from the severe "unique one" syndrome, experiencing "nameless feelings of ill; sudden bouts of shivering; cryptic warnings of the mind". This gift sets her apart from everyone else, and so even though outwardly she expresses the desire to be ordinary, inwardly she relishes in how special she is. Better, wiser, more emphatic/insightful/choose an adjective here/all of the above than everybody else. Apparently, she is also outside the pattern which renders her with an ability to alter the course of things. You see, the rest of us are like puppets implementing grand plans devised by higher beings without an ability to add even a jot to the design. Not Liadan, no. Her actions can challenge and change the destinies. No wonder that a girl raised with this notion reaches mastery at shallow coyness and false modesty that reeks with hypocrisy. This makes her insufferable, but I would endure it of not for one more thing: Liadan's relationship with her sister. The dynamics between the siblings is in a stark contrast with the previous book in the series. Where Sorcha sacrificed everything and suffered for her brothers with love and hope, Liadan's attitude to Niamh is beyond abominable. Mind you, I have a wonderful sister, and so the sisterhood theme is something I can relate to. Liadan at first only complains about Niamh's flaws and incessantly compares herself with the older girl in a way that transforms all Niamh's qualities into vices, then her feelings of being superior culminate in betrayal (even though she never explicitly admits to being the main reason for the terrible events that unfold in the book), followed by an agreement to the unfair treatment Niamh was forced to suffer confessing that she "had scarce given her [sister] a moment's thought" since bidding her farewell. What I hated the most, is the fact that while Liadan's transgressions and mistakes were far more severe and consequential than Niamh's actions, the other sister never received the love and warmth and support that surrounded Liadan. And this was never explained or reflected upon, just merely stated, and by Liadan to make it worse. Excuse my vulgarity, but what a cold-hearted bitch! And then, without any discernible development or breakthrough moment, Liadan takes a U-turn in order to be the merciful saviour. She had to, otherwise the whole sweater would fall apart. As it is, it remains badly stitched together.Marillier played with the notion of destiny but couldn't make up her mind. Liadan could alter it, her loved one also, to some extent, but others were not so lucky and so the only viable option for them was to meekly follow the predestined course. Descendant of traitors must be traitorous, sorcerous blood must come out, and so on and so forth. It is also a book about trust. Again, Liadan betrayed the trust of her sister, but never that of her lover, she trusts in one thing, and blindly, but only when it suits her, others she spurns. She also demands trust from others, rarely being able to provide more rationale for it besides the very convenient Sight. Sometimes not at all and without any apparent reasonlike denying her lover the knowledge that he has fathered a child.Marillier can write, I grant you that, but the book is too long and badly composed. While the love affair is credible, Niamh's story is far more interesting and with more drama to it than the mundane romance between Liadan and the Painted Man. And yet, Niamh does not get the credit, she shimmers on the margins of the main plot and basically serves as a springboard for Liadan. Furthermore, the main tale interspersed with other tales and tellings. It is all grand if you are an ardent fan of Celtic folklore. Surely, these are interesting, but if I wanted to know those, I'd read Celtic Tales and Legends or some other encyclopedic account of Irish mythology and fable. Woe is me, as the Son of the Shadows gave me a sort of the Irish version of the Arabian Nights.As you see, the whole sweater is made of bad yarn: it breaks in the plies, there are knots in many skeins with the orphaned and unknitted plies sitting like snags on the knit side of the fabric, and the loosely spun fibers result in pilling while the colour is bleeding and stains. I would not recommend it, as the Daughter of the Forest is a perfect standalone. * Terminology shamelessly stolen from the ever creative Zaara Other Sevenwaters books: 1. Daughter of the Forest3. Child of the Prophecy 4. Heir to Sevenwaters5. Seer of Sevewaters 6. Flame of Sevenwaters