Buddy read with the amazing Jessica
”I have believed, for a long time, that the Fair Folk guide our steps. That they work their great plans through us. But you are not in their scheme. Perhaps you hold some sort of key.”╰⊰✿Overall Feelings On Son of Shadows✿⊱╮
Just like Daughter of the Forest this takes us on a magical and epic journey over years. Liadan like her mother is a healer and as with all the children of Sevenwaters has a deep capacity for love. Once she finds it she will hold onto it forever no matter the cost. They are not the heroines that we normally see in fantasy with great powers or skill with weapons and fighting. Yet each is so strong in their own way. This is an emotional journey, perhaps not quite as emotional as Daughter of the Forest but still it took me through every emotion I have in my personal spectrum. I get so caught up in the world that I felt like I took the journey as well and I couldn’t help racing through the story. There were two scene in particular that just gutted me. Again it is a darker fantasy than some and there are no neatly tied up bows at the end for all the characters involved. There are some happier endings than others and like life no one gets everything they want, some very hard choices had to be made.
╰⊰✿The Story✿⊱╮
Son of Shadows continues the story of Daughter of the Forest a generation later. Red and Sorcha have had three children and they are of an age when things really start to happen again. Whether that is because the Fae have set new plans in motion, or an ancient evil has a plan for revenge, or something even older than the Fae has plans of its own is unclear.  The only thing that is certain is a new challenge has been set and new dangers await the children of Sevenwaters.Liadan is instantly likable, probably the most likable of all the three children Red and Sorcha had together. She is a reflection of both Sorcha and Red and I saw it in all of her choices and actions.
 “I can see we have taught you well, Liadan,” said my mother, regarding me closely. “You have my skill with healing and your father’s gift for love. He gathers all around him under his protective shade like a great forest tree. I see the same strength in you, Daughter.”
All the children grew up sheltered in the love of Sevenwaters but when events are set in motion secrets from the past and some choices made separate the family in ways they never imagined before. The nice thing about Son of Shadows is that it starts out a little faster than Daughter of the Forest. The propelling events of the story happen almost immediately and carry Liadan into her destiny which was a little unexpected.Liadan is blessed and cursed as Finbar was with the gift of sight. It is while she is discovering her power in this that she is kidnapped by a band of mercenaries in hopes she can heal one of their men. When she first meets the Painted Man she believes him to be the heartless killer of all the tales. He plays the role well and only when Liadan is able to see into his mind and future does she see that maybe he could be more than just the man from the stories and his past is more tragic than anyone she has met before. Because of her gift Liadan might not know what the future holds exactly but she does know that they are intertwined
“He and I—we share a bond. Not love, exactly. It goes beyond that. He is mine as surely as sun follows moon across the sky. Mine before ever I knew he existed. Mine until death and beyond. He is in terrible danger. From others and from himself. If I could do more to protect him, I would.
This is more a tale of mending long time hurts and discovering a new path in life that might be different than what you always expected for yourself. Liadan must learn how to use her gifts with the help of Finbar if she is ever going to save the man who stole her heart and she discovers that it is a heavy task to be shown the possibilities of the future.
╰⊰✿Why I Love the Sevenwaters World✿⊱╮
One of the things that draws me into the Sevenwaters stories so much is the actual world. It has a mysticism to it. It is subtle and even believable in a sense where sorcerers and druids use nature to influence their surroundings. It is a place where a forest is a living breathing thing full of spirits and enchantments and the Fae are just a thin veil away. It is a place of prophecy and destiny and I do love a tale with a good but of destiny in it.I really like that these are tales of families and all the joy and complications that come from that. The people you love the most are the people that you are capable of hurting even when all you are doing is trying to help. The entanglements are so emotional and heartfelt that I fall into the story and don’t want to emerge from it even when it is over.
╰⊰✿A Few Small Issues✿⊱╮
These are books I have to be a little patient with. There are a lot of little building steps that do add to the story but sometimes make it seem like it is moving along slowly. In Daughter of the Forest this happened near the beginning and while Sorcha was alone before meeting Red. In Son of Shadow this happens in the middle.I spent a lot of time waiting and wanting Bran to come back into Liadan’s life. It felt like he was gone forever and I missed him. I’m not saying this is necessarily a bad thing as it is probably what the author intended me to feel. The longing that Liadan felt for the man she knew she loved and I definitely felt that but I spent a lot of time waiting for him to come back so I was a little distracted from what was happening while I was waiting. The other issue is that the villians of the story are sometimes a little over the top. I love a good villain but I like it the best when they can in a different light be seen as a possible hero if you are on the other side. Ciaran is a great example of this. He is likable and I understand his motivations but he is also someone that could be very dangerous in the future. Lastly the ending was slightly anticlimactic because of the nature of how Liadan saves Bran. It is more an internal struggle with his past and so not very action oriented. It is not entirely a bad thing either but I really would have enjoyed seeing Bran battle someone first hand.All of these are just small issues and why it wasn’t quite a 5 star read for me. Note:This can be read as a standalone novel. It is more enjoyable if you know who the older generation in and their story but it isn’t completely necessary.