Son of the Shadows continues the story of the family of Sevenwaters. Sorcha now has three grown children of her own and there has been peace at Sevenwaters for many years, however, that peace is soon under threat by old evils. With old secrets tearing the household apart, it falls to Liadan, Sorcha and Red's youngest daughter, to try to keep the family together, however, when she is taken by a bunch of outlaws, it seems her own path ahead will be far from simple itself.I absolutely loved Marillier's Daughter of the Forest, so much so that to be honest I never expected that this sequel would be able to match the former, and perhaps that was just as well, as if I had, I think I would have found myself vastly disappointed with Son of the Shadows. My expectations having been lower from the off, however, I was able to enjoy this book for what it was.I was glad that Marillier's style in itself was very much in the same vein as Daughter of the Forest, with lush descriptions and rich detail, and most especially that her love for stories in themselves shone just as much in this book. Like Sorcha before her, Liadan is a gifted story-teller and the power of story-telling is just as prominent here. I particularly enjoyed the scenes where Liadan tells stories to the group of outlaws she encounters, and how they are all entranced. I also once again really enjoyed the setting and the time period in which the novel is set, and that mashing together of aspects of historical fiction with touches of fantasy, that are heavily inspired by Celtic lore. We are reunited with many beloved characters from Daughter of the Forest, and it was interesting to see what had happened to all of Sorcha's brothers, whose fates had been left quite open at the end of the first novel. We also meet many new characters, and I think one of my criticisms of this book would be that the new characters just didn't resonate as strongly as the old. Starting with Liadan as the heroine, I have to say that she paled in comparison to Sorcha. In some ways Marillier tries too hard to portray the similarities between the two characters, from the fact that they look identical, to the fact that they are both gifted healers and everyone calls Liadan her mother's daughter. However, where Sorcha burned a place in my heart for herself, Liadan often merely grated on my nerves. She wasn't really dutiful or gentle in the same way as Sorcha, though it kept being alluded that she was, and she was far more selfish and preachy, not to mention extremely judgmental. Nor did Marillier really manage to capture a special bond between the 3 siblings, as she did so wonderfully with Sorcha and her brothers. Whilst Liadan does clearly care for her sister Niamh and does help her, their relationship lacked the depth of feeling previously captured so well in the first book, and as for Sean, his and Liadan's telepathic bond seemed a cheap imitation of Sorcha and Finbar's mind to mind communication, albeit again without any of the depth of feeling. The villain here was rather predicable and his motivations weak, and he didn't get under my skin in the same way as Richard of Northwoods for instance, or seem as dangerous as Lady Oonagh. I did like the bunch of outlaws as a whole and the part where Liadan was taken by the outlaws was probably the most engaging in the entire book and I enjoyed the dynamics. I did initially like Bran during this part of the book too, as well as his and Liadan's developing relationship. My issue was that said relationship then progressed too quickly. Furthermore, I didn't really like Bran's treatment of Liadan thereafter, and whilst I can appreciate that Marillier endeavoured to account for this with his backstory and how damaged he was by his childhood, he was rather too driven by bitterness for my liking. As for Liadan, given his treatment of her, I did sometimes find it strange how she was so devoted to him thereafter, putting him ahead of everyone else. Furthermore, once again their relationship lacked the depth of feeling that was there with Red and Sorcha. Certainly there was some passion captured between the two, however, I didn't necessarily believe them as star-crossed lovers destined to be together, and much preferred the slow-burn romance between Sorcha and Red from the first book.Indeed the love between those two characters could still be felt in the book, where the most affecting scene was Sorcha's death, and I absolutely loved the throwback to Red re-telling the story he once told her about Toby and his mer-woman. I thought Marillier captured that scene beautifully and it really felt as if their love had come full circle. Overall, however, it has to be said that Marillier does have her old characters make a fair few mistakes in this book, most particularly when it comes to Niamh. Whilst I could in part appreciate why they were so anxious to keep Ciaran's identity a secret, that didn't excuse their harsh treatment of Niamh and I found this particularly hard to believe of Red. Still despite not being perfectly painted, I still felt more connected to these older characters. I did actually think that Niamh and Ciaran's story was the more interesting one in comparison to Liadan and Bran's. Whilst I will await to see if more comes of Ciaran in the next book, I thought that Marillier may have missed a trick here in not putting more focus on these two. I will finish the trilogy of the original Sevenwaters series at some point, whether I continue beyond that to the next trilogy I am as yet unsure. This was an engaging enough read, though it did feel rather long, with not much happening for stretches at a time and was let down for me by some of the characterisation. Certainly it in no way recaptured the magic and depth of feeling from the first book.