This book gives me a strong Sabrina the Teenage Witch vibe which I'm loving so much. A good contender for a spooky season with witches, magic, humour, and a swoony beautiful romance combined with a whole lot of warm fall undertones. The Ex Hex starts with heartbroken Vivi Jones, who chose to move on from the boy who had dumped her in a debarred way of vodka and curse; in which she very much expected to fail but may have worked a little too well after Rhys Penhallow showed up for Graves Glen nine years later. This book is far from perfect. There were lots of things that I wished would be different or cut down. However, Sterling manages to describe readers with a picturesque Halloween feel and witch vibes, I couldn't help but wish I could experience Graves Glen myself. This makes the first half of the book such an easy and fast read. I love the stellar banter from the resentment that the two main characters still have for each other, making their moments always a barrel of laughs. Vivi and Rhys were such an iconic pair, and I enjoyed their dynamic even with Vivi's cousin, Gwen was in the picture.Nevertheless, there's no denying that the second half of the book started to get tiresome and draggy. The conflict was stalled, with more scenes of the characters banging each other than necessary. The world-building fell off due to the characters' passive approach in breaking the curse; I realized the ending was rushed and poorly delivered.Be that as it may, I believe it pivots on what you're looking for in the book. If you want some fall witchy romance, The Ex Hex is perfect for you but if you're looking for some intense witch adventure, I reckon this book did not have lots in store. It was adequate but I wished there were more they could offer us than just Vivi and Rhys. All in all, the characters were a labour of love, and the book is still enjoyable and noteworthy. Is it something I would find myself rereading? Probably not but I would surely still recommend this for others to read, especially during spooktober. Just all the right feels.[3.5/5]