So it turns out that when it comes to reading, dark and bizarre are much more my speed than a fluffy romance. I swear I tried- this started out so fun! But between a haphazard plot and overuse of the term “rakish” The Ex Hex is like a pumpkin spice latte, a good idea on paper, but saccharine and unmemorable in reality. The story follows a semi-practicing witch Vivienne, who teaches history at a small Georgian college and is unable to forget her ex Rhys, a Welsh witch she spent a whirlwind summer with almost a decade ago during his time studying abroad. Rhys likewise pines for Vivienne while running a successful travel business back home in Wales. Their brief 3 month romance came to an end when Rhys belatedly revealed his betrothal to another witch back home (a notion that is brought up repeatedly throughout the book but never actually explained- whatever became of the mystery betrothed?) and Viv understandably broke up with and (accidentally) cursed him. When Rhys returns to Georgia on magical business, Vivienne’s curse wreaks havoc on both him and the town. Soon the pair find themselves rekindling an old flame, and occasionally conducting research into how to lift the curse. What I was hoping for was a steamy, Practical Magicish romp, and what I got was more of a Netflix original movie that was neither sexy or fun enough to keep me hooked. All of the novel’s plot is squished into the final quarter of the book, as neither Viv nor Rhys take much action to reverse this apparently dangerous curse until the last minute… The curse itself also didn’t seem like too big of a deal until the end of the book and suddenly the situation becomes a matter of life and death. The chemistry between the two leads was certainly apparent, but I never really accepted the central idea that they yearned for one another after spending three months together as horny 19 year olds. Lastly, I’d be remiss not to mention that there are some serious fashion crimes committed in this book. When has anyone ever looked irresistible in purple and black striped tights? Don’t even get me started on the black and orange polka dot dress paired with an orange patent belt… Vivienne’s aesthetic channels a mashup between Ms. Frizzle, Spirit Halloween and Hot Topic, and none of it screams sultry historian smoke show.