Rhys Penhallow broke up with Vivienne Jones nine years ago. She responded to it by drinking Vodka and cursing him using a candle from Bath & Body Works. She was just goofing around and was sure that the curse would never work. She was in for a big surprise when Rhys returns to town almost a decade later in the present. Did the Ex Hex work? Is it harmless, as she earlier thought? Erin Sterling (or Rachel Hawkins) will give you the answer through this book.What I learned from this book 1) Why is it said that effect of alcohol may last a lifetime? Alcohol will make us lose our inhibitions. Alcohol interferes with brain pathways which in turn make us lose our inhibitions by making it laborious to think. We can see how alcohol badly affected Vivienne’s life. “Never mix vodka and witchcraft.”  2) What is the protégé effect? We can see the author mentioning teaching and its importance. She specifically tries to make us understand the importance of teaching younger children. I recently read about an effect linked with education in a book that discusses the importance of teaching younger children. According to the protégé effect, the student teachers score higher on tests than students learning for their own sake. Similarly, first-born children have higher IQs than younger children. It is because of the time the elder children spend teaching younger children. “So what sort of history do you teach?” he asked, turning his attention to the bookshelf.The basics,” she replied.”  3) What is the difference between knowledge and wisdom? Knowledge is piling up facts; wisdom is simplifying it. Wisdom is the ability to use knowledge, understanding, experience, common sense, and insight to make sound decisions. It is the ability to use the right knowledge at the right time to make correct decisions. It is also the insight that enables us to prevent using our knowledge in situations where we shouldn’t use it.In this book, the author clearly shows us how knowledge without wisdom can be perilous through the character of Vivienne Jones. She is using her knowledge to curse in a place where she should have never used it. “Curse magic doesn’t work like that. You’ll get general bad luck or, if you go really dark, death. But nothing that small or specific.” My favourite three lines from this book  ““Is that a euphemism?” Rhys asked. “I really hope it’s a euphemism.”“Nope,” Vivi replied. “It’s exactly what it sounds like.”  “You’re thinking too loud.”    “Gorgeous blue skies, rolling green hills, the kind of day that made one want to take up painting or maybe develop some kind of poetry habit.”   What could have been better?Romance tropes are the chemistry between Rhys Penhallow, and Vivienne Jones is just ok. I think the author should have written it in a better way. Rating  3/5 If you are looking for a simple book with a little bit of magic and romance for a casual read, this book will be a decent choice.