Pre-reading review: Let’s be honest, I hated Twilight. I *loved* hating Twilight. Terrible as they were, those books had literary merits of a Twinkie - and were just as addicting. And now this is out, and can I really think I have the willpower not to read this sparkly creepy vampire opus? Also, what the hell is that cover??? It’s seriously creepy. Pomegranate — or a partially dissected heart? Reminds me of anatomy lab and all that formaldehyde smell...—————Post-reading review:Reader, I finished it. Yes, the entire 700+ pages. That’s some self-discipline, mixed with masochism, apparently. 700+ pages of the story of the first Twilight book, told through Edward Sparklepire’s eyes. 700+ pages of overly-wordy, painfully bloated overwritten narration that does not dare skip ever the most insignificant detail or word. 700+ pages of self-loathing angst and cringeworthy romance basically told in real time. But hey, I can sum up the first third of this magnum opus pretty succinctly, courtesy of RiffTrax guys and their bloodthirsty 40-second parody version of Edward’s lullaby with these immortal lyrics (lullaby because the creepy stalker Sparkleson climbs into her room through the window every night and without her knowledge or consent obsessively for hours on end watches her sleep. Blergh):"I want to chomp into your throoooooat.And watch you bleed out on the floooooor.Then I'll bathe myself in your life essence as you die.Tear your heart out of your chest and crack the bones and suck the marrow out. Slice into your brain for sandwiches and maybe have an omelette made of--"We already knew that cute subtle sparkly sheen was the skin of a killer. We knew Edward Sparklemeister was an angsty broody uptight guy with serious control issues and obsessive creepy stalker/ abusive boyfriend personality. What I don’t think I realized before is how petty and judgmental Sparklepants actually was. Literally the opening scene of this book has his internal monologue bitch and whine about everyone and everything around him, including his family.  “Why did she have to come here? Why did she have to exist? Why did she have to ruin the little peace I had in this nonlife of mine? Why had this aggravating human ever been born? She would ruin me.”(Also, Growing Up Cullen, ultimate genius. Read and rejoice - it captures Edward’s character perfectly) This book is much MUCH longer than Twilight - probably because in addition to Edward’s incessant self-loathing inner monologue we also get, via his eavesdropping mind-reading ability, constant recaps of Bella’s conversations with other characters. And *everything* that those characters thought, in strangely coherent sentences. Reading looong sections of Edward eavesdropping on other people’s thoughts made me finally realize what bugs me about this whole setup: people don’t spend their whole day running their internal monologues in perfectly coherent sentences, like a book. At least I don’t. It would be a jumble of images, sentence fragments, overlapping distracted thoughts, visuals, etc. That can’t be just me, right?It’s the sheer number of details. About everything. Obsessively. Every minute detail. Every single word ever said. Twenty pages of Edward interrogating Bella about her likes and dislikes. A page and a half of Sparkly Sparkleson choosing a shirt to wear. An hour of reading dialogue describing everything from Bella’s favorite color to favorite bands to favorite books to her favorite ... *SNORE* Pardon me, I must have dozed off from boredom here. Sufficient to say that pacing — what pacing? My best guess is that this book is supposed to serve as a Twilight encyclopedia / retcon. - Was Bella’s character criticized as an empty self-insert shell of a person in Twilight? No problem, let’s cram every single detail about her here to refute that. “There was a bit of Jane Eyre in her, a portion of Scout Finch and Jo March, a measure of Elinor Dashwood, and Lucy Pevensie.”- Was Bella criticized for being too self-absorbed and judgmental towards other non-vampire characters in Twilight? No problem, let’s make sure that every character surrounding her here thinks such a barrage of vile thoughts at her that by contrast she appears to be Heaven incarnate and shines like a judgmental petty diamond she is. “The English language needed a word that meant something halfway between a goddess and a naiad.”- Was Edward criticized for angry and abusive stalkerish behavior in Twilight? No problem, let’s just insert a billion justifications about how he totally respects Bella’s choices and how what would seem to be controlling and stalkerish behavior totally isn’t, and he sparkles like a judgmental prissy diamond he is. Except when the creepy is still there (since Meyer wrote it twice already): “And then she started to walk away from me.Without thinking about my action, I automatically reached out and caught her by the back of her rain jacket. She jerked to a stop.“Where do you think you’re going?” I was upset—almost angry that she was leaving. I hadn’t had enough time with her.” And the language. Oh, the Bella-levels clumsy language (“her heart throbbed wetly just a foot from my ear”) and overwrought descriptions (“Her scent hit me like a battering ram, like an exploding grenade”) and clunky metaphors (“The electricity ricocheted around the inside of my stomach”, “my voice wrapped around her name like a caress”).Enjoy the highlights reel:“She was from a much brighter, warmer place—her skin seemed to reflect that somehow, despite its fairness—and the cold must make her uncomfortable.”Her skin reflects no such thing. Apparently she’s corpse-like in her translucent paleness and you keep emphasizing how translucently pale she is. Eddykins, you are just making sh*t up now.—————“I smiled at the threat, then gently kissed her again, quitting as soon as her heart started acting up.”“Her heartbeat thudded louder than before, and the rhythm was abruptly staccato.”Holy crow, as Bella would say. Sparkleson, your actions seem to trigger some serious arrhythmia in your girlfriend. You may want to think about EKG. Two medical degrees, Doctor Sparklepants — you know this could be deadly.—————— - A few times hopelessly smitten women literally think “Swoon” when ogling the marble Adonis that Edward is. How often do you see an attractive person and proceed to actually verbalize in your head, “Swoon”? I never have - but maybe I way too busy actually swooning rather than thinking “Swoon”? (Also, “swoon” no longer seems like a real word).—————“I fall down a lot when I run,” she said sheepishly.” What the hell IS wrong with Bella? Those balance and coordination issues are way more than endearing clumsiness. Did she have a stroke? Does she have a brain tumor? I mean, a person should be able to walk on a flat surface without tripping for at least a few steps, right? Did you say TWO medical degrees, Dr. Sparkletoes? You never considered asking your girlfriend to get a brain MRI?——————“I stared at her in blank surprise. “People can’t smell blood.”Stephenie Meyer doesn’t know how human sense of smell works. Or maybe I’m a vampire, too.——————“She waited in silence, her teeth pressing into her soft lower lip.That sight distracted me for a second. Strange, unfamiliar reactions stirred deep in my forgotten human core.”Dear Edward Sparklepants. Strange unfamiliar reactions deep in your core? Don’t you have two medical degrees and a lifetime spent in biology classes? I know you’re a 100-year-old virgin, but you must understand, no? It’s arousal, buddy. You are simply horny.————————————Anyway, you get the gist.Now I’m hoping that Meyer does not decide to rewrite the rest of the books from other POVs. Oh crap, I hope I haven’t given her any ideas....