**3.5-stars**When Neomi Taboada's father enlists her help to check on her cousin, Catalina, she really doesn't want to. Neomi's got so much going on in the city. She doesn't have time for this!Catalina, recently married, lives in a remote manor home, known as High Place, with her husband, Virgil and his family, far from the bustle of Mexico City.According to Catalina's recent letters, the home is a desolate place, where she is currently either very unwell, purportedly with tuberculosis, or she's in incredible danger.Mr. Taboada is insistent that Neomi should go check on her. When his persistent urging doesn't work, he does what any good parent would do. He bribes her instead.Neomi wants nothing more than to attend University, so that's exactly the carrot he dangles in front of her. Her father knows her well.Before she even realizes what's happening, Neomi is packing her bags and heading off to High Place.Once there, Neomi immediately feels at odds with Virgil's stuffy, overly-proper family. She is a modern, society-girl, who is used to having her own way, or at least being able to have a conversation over dinner.In addition to the regimented, claustrophobic feel of the house itself, Neomi begins feeling spooked by Virgil's family and starts experiencing vivid nightmares. Something is going on in this house.Her interactions with Virgil and his family get more disturbing as the days go by, until Neomi doesn't fear just for Catalina's well-being, but also her own.Y'all, I was highly anticipating this novel. I have really enjoyed previous works from Moreno-Garcia and the gothic vibes of this are totally my jam.While there is no denying that Moreno-Garcia's writing is lush and captivating, something about the pace of this one was off for me.The premise is super intriguing, the atmosphere was top notch, but the characters were not as well developed as I would have liked. I feel like I should have been attached to Neomi, but I wasn't.The horror elements were interesting; definitely unique. I found the ideas behind that aspect alluring, for sure.There were also scenes that legit grossed me out. I may even have gagged once or twice. Uncle Howard is horrifying. The descriptions. I had to take a shower after.Overall, for me, this is a good book, bordering on really good. I think if the pace wasn't so variant from quiet lulls to extreme intensity, I would have enjoyed it more.I hope that Moreno-Garcia continues in this lane though. This gothic horror is fantastic for her writing style. I'm on board for anything else she writes, believe that.