For as intriguing as it is, immersive it is not. This tale is bizzare and fascinating in its monotony, and in the second half there lies the charm—or the problem, depending on how you look at it.The book operates on the classic trope of isolated old creaky mansion complete with its misty private cemetery and ‘eccentrically macabre’ family. On the surface, the Doyles look like a harmless and orderly household, but the peculiarity rests (literally) within the walls of the house—its secrets and history, the mind twisting effects it has on the people living inside it.The characters are described a certain way, and for the most part they are unchanging. I didn’t like Noemí. Someone needs to introduce her to the proverb “when in Rome do as the Romans do” cause she’s annoyingly nonchalant, rude, nosy, distrustful, and sometimes acts like a brat in a place that’s not her home. I had a mild crush on Francis, and I also kinda had the hots for Virgil . . . which I know how not right that sounds considering he’s a creep LOL.Howard is a disgusting old man, just ew! It’s a shame that Catalina is such a passive character when she’s the reason for Noemí’s visit in the first place.There’s the barest hint of romance, but its unclear presence makes it pointless. The plot doesn’t take flight until the last 30% to 40% of the book. When it does, it veers into such unexpected direction that it’ll leave you flabbergasted. Because of this drastic shift, it feels like reading two different books where one (the first half) is a tedious mystery/suspense and another (the second half) is an absurd supernatural—borderline fantasy—horror.The book is set in 1950s Mexico, but the only thing that reflects that is Noemí’s sense of fashion. The Doyles are an English family, and the majority of the book takes place inside the mansion. There are some passing commentary on eugenics, the Revolution, race and gender injustices, etc that aren’t meant to be thought provoking but serve as some sort of ‘ornamentation’ as they lack depth.In other words, the Mexican culture isn’t prominently realised through the setting nor it is affirmed by the characters. The book could’ve been set in any time period and it wouldn’t have made any difference.I’d considered why I wasn’t as enamored and mesmerised as the majority of GR readers seemed to be, and I decided it was because I didn’t vibe with the writing. It’s easy to follow, but it’s also . . . dry. The book goes so far as utilizing disturbing themes and graphic scenes, but they are never truly felt. The whole experience for me was like NOT peering through a pair of 3D glasses.(Read as an Audiobook)