Two centuries ago three sisters were drowned in the harbor off Sparrow Island after being charged with witchcraft. Ever since then during the Swan Season, a period of time between June 1st and the end of the month, the three sisters return to the island by claiming the body of three young girls. With those bodies, the sisters each lure a boy to their death, exacting revenge on the town that murdered them. The town has become a tourist destination for those twisted enough to want to join the witch hunt to find which teenage girl the long-dead witches inhabit or to discover which boy will be dragged beneath the surface of the water and killed. Bo Carter arrives on the shores of Sparrow on the eve of the Swan season unaware of the danger he's in. This year things get complicated when Penny, who can see what others cannot, tries to protect Bo from the sister's siren song. Guys, this book! I swear to you, this book was so amazing that words are hard to come by to explain how great it was. I've been in a witchy mood lately but this book checked all my boxes. It was atmospheric, it was haunting, it was eerie, and it was lyrically and beautifully written. Think Hocus Pocus meets Practical Magic and they had a baby with The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender. It was THAT good. This book had me hooked from the first party scene straight through to the last page. The setting was so vibrant, so hauntingly isolated, and I could picture it so clearly in my head. The entire town was steeped in legend, in eerie traditions, and magic and I am low key contemplating a move to somewhere like it. It really came to alive on the page for me. Penny, our main character, is a fantastic narrator. She's different, an outsider while still being a native, and she's navigating friendship, social anxiety, and a new budding relationship in a way that is way too relatable...minus the witch hauntings and boys being drowned, of course. And Bo, my beautiful Bo, is just...everything. He's a complex character who ends up breaking my heart so many times in this book. I've heard some people say they couldn't get behind the instalove, but I was shipping them from the second they said hello to one another. I was team Bo/Penny from GO and can we just talk about the spark and the passion between these two? Legit one of my new fave kissing scenes resides in this book and just...wow. Their romance, their connection is everything. I 100% had no problem with the way this relationship played out. In a setting like this, in the situation they were in, I think them clinging to one another makes perfect sense. Legit 10/10 would recommend for anyone who loves atmospheric books, witchy tales, swoon worth kisses, or beautiful quote worthy writing. I had a LOT of annotating, tabbing, and personalizing this book with my thoughts. It now holds a forever place in my heart and on my favorites shelf. Warning: One thing I do want to note is that due to the nature of the witch's curse they do inhabit young girls and use their bodies for a month and so sometimes things are done in their bodies without their knowledge and therefore consent. It clearly didn't stop me from loving the book but I wanted to note that in the review in the ost non-spoiler way possible. **Also, Netflix has won the bidding war to make a show/series/movie out of this and I CANNOT wait to see how it turns out. I have high hopes!**I buddy read this on Twitter using the hashtag #brWickedDeep if you want to look up the hashtag and see what others had to say. I also chatted with the following ladies in a group DM on Twitter while reading. Melanie at Meltotheany, Lilly at Lair of Books, Chelsea at Chelsea Palmer , Paloma, Jules at JA Ironside!