This is what love does. In stories , love healed your wounds , fixed what was broken , allowed you to go on. But love wasn't a spell , some kind of benediction to be whispered, a balm or a cure-all. It was a single , fragile thread, which grew stronger trough connection , trough shared hardship and honored trust.....''   But maybe that was the trick of it; ; too survive , to dare to stay alive , to forge your own hope when all hope had run out. ''   summary/opinion , no spoilers off the previous books. 5 starsss✨✨✨✨✨👀This book was such a journey once again created my the brilliant Leigh Bardugo. This book was everything i hoped for after finishing king of scars. It is a journey of people who fight four their country , the dream of a better world , a world where grisha will be free and where Ravka will be whole again , a journey of hope for the country and for the charracters own wounds. The story is about fighting for that hope and the dream and it is about healing your wounds mentally and accepting yourself the way you are with your past included. This book brilliantly got all the grisha books together and made all the individual stories connect as a whole in a brilliant way.  This revieuw contains spoilers for all the previous grisha verse books including king of scars. It also contains spoiler for rule of wolves itself but those are at the very last of this revieuw marked with bold spoiler tags !   Rule of wolves  starts off right where king of scars ended. The darkling has returned like aloa bitches here i am again and he is now in a special cell in Ravka. It follows the povs we also had in the last book of ;  Nikolai Lantsov who we need too protect at all cost  who is now one with the demon inside of him and batteling for a better Ravka for the upcoming war against our lovely Fjerda ,  Zoya Nazalensky  who is now one with the dragon and the spirit of Juris and who is fighting with her past and the acceptance of it while also batteling with nikolai against Fjerda and  Nina Zenik  who is still in the lovely Fjerda with Hanne and our lovely * cough * Brum trying too get information from the inside of fjerda too get too Nikolai. We also have some more povs in this book that i wont tell you about but which where intresting too the overall story.  The plot , world  The plot of this book was so freaking intense and just AMAZING. it is super fast paced and the stakes are high troughout the whole book , we have plently of plottwistst too keep us on our toes and makes us want too scream intoo the void very loud. We have multiple povs that show different sides of the story. The book is definitly charracter driven and driven on the struggles of the charracters and the orad towards fighting for a better future and accepting themselves but it is also very much plot driven , its just the perfect mix between these two elements that makes you connect somuch. The plot is just so intense and has lots of twistst and such a great plot/charracter driven combination that i live for.  Charracters   Nikolai Lantsov , the person who looks like a cinnamon roll and actually is a cinnamon roll Nikolai is officially my number one favorite male charracter. I love this male so much. Leigh created a very sarcastic charracter who has somuch hope in his heart and gives that hope too others and is willing too do anything for that better world and no matter how dark the days get he makes a new sarcastic comment and holds on too this hope and drives Ravka trough all the bad. But Leigh also really shows with his charracter that even if someone is on the outside very outgoing and cheerfull inside they can be struggeling and this is so important , Preach Leigh. My bby deserves nothing but happiness and this duology gave him somany more layers of depht. also he gives us amazing banter ,we stan him here on this page.  '' Is it the shadow inside you that makes you brave ? '''' I should hope not. i was making bad decisions long befor that thing showed up. ''   '' was that what drew him to this life as king ? He longed for peace for his country , but did some part of him fear it aswell ? Who was he without someone to appose him , without a problem to solve ? ''   Zoya Nazyalensky , the general who looks like like she could kill you and actually would  DAMN. what a female charracter. Zoya is so complex and her story really came too life in this duology. We have somuch more depht too her and her story really came together in this finale book. Zoya is brave and fights for the things she believes in and she is slowly going too the journey of accepting herself and her past , of letting love in instead of pushing it away because she is scared of getting hurt. I love watching her development somuch. Zoya chose mercy when it was so easy too chose vegance. this is what i call charracter development pREACH. This girl is amazing.  You are strong enough to survive the fall.   But that was an old voice , the voice of a hurt child who had no one to trust , who feared there would always be someone more powerful and cruel then her. She would forever be a bloodthirsty , furious girl , but she might allow herself too be something else too. If she had helped to earn piece for Ravka , then maybe she could grant her own heart a bit of piece aswell.   Nina Zenik , looks like a cinnamon roll but could actually kill you  Nina Zenik , my queen of waffles. This girl will forever be one of my favorite female charracters. She is brave , can be impulsive , loves waffles , is stubborn and wants her way , is passionate and loves very deeply and is sassy , Krizzie is that you ?? i relate too her a lot and i love her story in this duology , the story of grieve but about finding happiness again and about accepting the things that have happend and give it a place. Also all the side charracters i still love , they all have their own personality and add something too the story and all the banter the charracters have together is too live for.  Romance  I live for the slowburn between Nikolai and Zoya , they developt even more together in Rule of Wolves and i just screamed at all the scenes they have together. In my opinion they have somuch chemistry and the scene where nikolai follows her too the garden is cheff kiss. I also love their banter , no what i live for it. And the way they accept eachother for who they are with their flaws and how they can be themselves with eachother but OH THE SLOWBURN , the angst HELP. Overall this is such a good sequel in this duology and i loved it even more then King of scars , the plot is constant full of action and high stakes and tension , the romance is slowburn and full of chemistry , there is great banter and amazingly worked out charracters OH AND emotional pain i warn you. i cried my eyeballs out at 1 am.  SPOILER PART , SPOILERS OF INSIDE RULE OF WOLVES CONTENT.  - THE CROWS OHMYLORD the crows appeared. i honestly screamed when kaz showed up and then Jesper bby and Wylieeee. AND THEN AT THE END INEJ. YES !!!! i loved how this book connected all the stories together. The story of the crows , the story of alina and mal [ yes they also appear and i actually liked it even tho i died a little when i heard mal speak ew. ] , the darkling and the charracters from this duology like this is just masterpiece work connecting all these pieces. AND THE BANTER OF THE CROWS. i wheezed so hard and my heart is happy.  '' because unlike Kaz , i have a conscience. '' '' I have a conscience, '' said Kaz. '' It just knows when to keep its mouth shut. '' Jesper snorted. '' If you have a conscience , its gagged and tied to a chair somewhere. ''  - Zoya becoming the dragon OHMYLORD I SCREAMED. this is just ugh. i sobbed and screamed. - i loved having a darkling pov , it makes him even more complex and it was intresting too me too look inside his mind and it shows us that he is indeed just so afraid of being forgotten and being unremembered , alexander. - THIS LINE I SOBBED ;  '' Nikolai followed his queen trough the mountains and knew hope would leat them home. ''  ZOYA BEING QUEEN YES. - the transgender rep of Hanne !!! i love this and saw it coming. i love how leigh includes this without it being forced. - i still dont like Nina with Hanne a lot but i am glad they are happy. i just dont stan but the romance is good. But i just want matthias bby oops. i am biased. - this line from Nikolai too zoya. goosbumps everytime ;  I will always seek to make it summer for you. ''  fuck i am so happy they are endgame and happy together now. they deserve it somuch. Thier chemistry is just +++++++ - THE KISS WE ALL HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR , THE SLOWBURN.- THE PAIn , david his death fucking broke me and i am still a mess. on the fucking wedding day Leigh is a monster. i hate her yet i love her.last quote i swear ;  '' Then i would gladly be your prince , your demon consort , your demon fool.'' '' you will grow to hate me. Im too sharp , too angry , too spitfeful. '' '' You are all of those things , but you are so much more , Zoya. Our people will come to love you not despite your ferocity , but because of it. Because you showed mercy in our darkerst hour. Because we know that if daqnger comes again , You will never falter. give us that chance. '' ''Get a message to the crow Club'' she said '' Tell Kaz Brekker the queen of Ravka has a job for him. ''  FUCK WHAT A WAY TOO END THE BOOK , I AM 100 % SURE NOW WE ARE GETTING ANOTHER SIX OF CROWS BOOK AND I AM SCREAMING STILL.  SPOILER HAVE ENDED read this book , be in pain and be happy. NOW