This book is my divine reward.For years, I have been punished for being what many would call "stupid." I read books by authors I have never enjoyed. I continue series whose first book I two starred. I pick things up based on hype, when that has historically never worked for me.And in return, I read disappointment after disappointment, book I don't like after book I don't like, synonym after synonym.UNTIL NOW.I should not have liked this book. I shouldn't have picked it up ever, let alone preorder it. And yet.AND YET.Look at that rating!!!This book was extremely good, to me!I did not like the first book in the original Grisha trilogy much, and yet I picked up the second. I did not like the second (to the extent that I had to DNF it, which has happened approximately 10 times out of 1200 opportunities), and yet I read the first book in this duology. And I did not care for that book AT ALL, and still I paid human money for this one before it even had a cover!And for my faith and loyalty, God Leigh Bardugo has seen fit to give me this present.This was just so good.Even though it had a million perspectives, and even though I historically didn't like any of the characters they followed, I enjoyed just about EVERY ONE this time. Even though in the last book, the pacing was off and nothing happened and even when it did I didn't care, this was NONSTOP FUN and ACTION. Even though the characters I hated in prior books appeared in this one, I WASN'T MAD.Add in appearances from characters I actually did like, and a romance I was actually invested in, and politics that were compelling AND logical, and I'm a happy camper.A happy camper who has no choice but to believe that the universe revolves around her, and that this book being specifically for me is the proof.Bottom line: NEVER GIVE UP! Annoy everyone around you with your cynicism and grumpiness forever. You'll be duly repaid.-----------------pre-reviewin case it wasn't clear from the fact that i read a 600 page book in a day:i liked this.review to come / 4 stars?-----------------currently-reading updatesa readathon in to finish as many of my unread books as possible seemed like a good idea.then i remembered i own 80 of them and most of them are either extremely long or impenetrable classics. or both.clear ur shit prompt 7: read a book with gold or silver on the coverfollow my progress here-----------------tbr reviewi did not like the grisha trilogy. i did not like the first book in this duology. but i did preorder this, because i'm LOYAL.