Self-awareness paradoxically requires an awareness of the other A magical savant, a super genius, the world on the brink of eco-apocalypse, possible ways out, or are the solutions as dangerous as the problem? and young love. What’s not to like? Laurence Amstead is your basic pre-ad tech genius, indulging in minor projects like inventing a two-second time machine you can wear on your wrist, and developing a chatty super-computer in his spare time. He is beset, of course, by the usual school bully sorts. Patricia Delfine has similar issues, based on a different way of being different. Seems she can understand what animals are saying, birds in particular. She also manages a nifty bit of astral projection to follow a particular bird to a particular, god-like, if delphic tree, that gives her a riddle. Fortunately, they both attend the same school. Patricia tries to engage her fellow outcast, but he gets dickish on seeing her gift, and wastes the chance at a connection. Thankfully, he thinks better before long and and extends a hand. The usual sort of stupid parents see Laurence's social struggles at school as his fault, rather than the result of a hostile environment, and exile him to a cartoonishly awful military academy. Charlie Jane Anders - from SF WeeklyThere is a particularly dark-hearted guidance counselor at their school, who seems to have it in for both of them, although it is not entirely clear why. He persuades Patricia that the special tree wants her to do something dire. Patricia is offered a chance to attend this book's version of Hogwarts. But the offer comes at a price. She will have to go immediately, leaving Laurence in a bad situation. What’s a young witch to do?The story soon time-warps ahead a decade plus. Patricia is part of a family-like witch pod. Lawrence has been recruited by a super-rich visionary with big plans. The two groups personify the magic vs tech conflict, fantasy coming up against sci-fi. The clash is set against the backdrop of a world that is falling apart, or rather one that has been abused to the point of apocalypse. Where the wand meets the wormhole is in their different approaches to how to deal. Then there is the relationship between the adult, well somewhat adult, P&L. Will they line up on opposite sides of the impending crisis? The on-again-off-again nature of their connection continues, which complicates things. They take on some larger philosophical questions, made less theoretical by the tech notions on display. …things in our world are just the shadows of things in other places,” Laurence said, forming the thought as he spoke. “I mean, we always suspected that gravity was so weak in our world because most of it was in another dimension. But what else? Light? Time? Some of our emotions? I mean, the longer I live, the more I feel like the stuff I see and feel is like a tracing of the outline of the real stuff that’s beyond our perceptions.” “Like Plato’s cave,” Patricia said. “Like Plato’s cave,” Laurence agreed. “I don’t know,” Patricia said. “I mean, we’re grown-ups now. Allegedly. And we feel things less than we did when we were kids, because we’ve grown so much scar tissue, or our senses have dulled. I think it’s probably healthy. I mean, little kids don’t have to make decisions, unless something’s very wrong. Maybe you can’t make up your mind as easily, if you feel too much. You know?There is a lot of creativity on display here, particularly with the farther out tech elements and the softer-edged magical bits. This was probably a gimme given the author's previous main gig, as a founder of io9, a website about science fiction, science and futurism. It is only one of her many activities. (Anders left io9 to dedicate herself to novel writing in 2016) Her stories have appeared in a range of sci-fi and fantasy sites and publications, and story collections. She has a Hugo award for her novelette Six Months, Three Days. Definitely check out her site for more detail on her prior work. The imaginary bits are definitely a strength, although I thought they fell a bit short in the logic of their tactical application. The primary limitation was the YA-ness of a story billed as adult. It feels perfectly appropriate for there to be a YA tone in the early part of the book, as the characters are pre-ads. But once they were more grown up, at least physically, it felt to me, despite the deadly tech being tossed about, the body count, and the sexuality of the characters, that the YA feel remained. Characters do engage in meaningful consideration of moral choices, but they do that as pre-teens as well, so that did not represent that much of a change. There was one hanging chad here that seemed to have readers in a tizzy. Patricia has a cat that was left out of the proceedings once she skips from heading off to witch school to being all grown up. Enough readers raised this that Anders wrote a story to patch up the gap. You can catch Clover on tor.com.Overall, I was impressed with the creativity and energy of All the Birds in the Sky, combined with the eagerness to take on some big subjects, but was not as impressed with the relationship elements, as they continued to feel 8-bit, when 128-bit was called for. Still a fun read. It probably helps to be a teen or millennial.Review first posted - January 6, 2017Publication date - January 26, 2016=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter, FB, and GR pages and her blog, Happy DancingAnders’ io9 site is definitely worth checking out.She also co-hosts the blog Our Opinions Are CorrectThere is a lot of good intel on Anders in her wiki page as well