I LOVED this. It has everything I want in a middle grade book - magic, danger, humour - and a giant grumpy cat called Fenestra.Morrigan Crow is a cursed child, the blame of every misfortune that happens within her home town. Heart attack? Morrigan’s fault because she asked after your health. Storm destroyed your house? Morrigan’s vault because she stated it was a nice day. Anything and everything considered unlucky is the result of Morrigan. And she’s also destined to die on her eleventh birthday. Worded luck ever. Until at the stroke of midnight on Eventide she’s whisked away by a ginger bearded man called Jupiter North into the magical Free State of Nevermoor. Here, she’s told she’s to be Jupiter’s sponsor to the Wunder Society. A society that accepts a handful of pupils each year. Pupils who are extraordinary. But Morrigan’s nothing but a cursed child. Or so she thinks. I loved Morrigan. Her upbringing as a cursed child has led to her being incredibly self deprecating and full of woe at times, which blends well with the more outgoing personalities she meets in Nevermoor. She lacks confidence and constantly undermines herself, making her instantly endearing and likeable. I could relate to her a lot, and found her multi faceted and complex in nature. Combine this with the mystery surrounding who Morrigan really is, and why Jupiter wants her in Nevermoor, and I was completely invested in her story. The secondary characters are also full fleshed and wonderful. Jupiter North is instantly warm and welcoming to Morrigan, a pillar of friendliness and kindness that Morrigan hasn’t experienced before. Yes, he keep secrets from her which at times I found infuriating, but his reasonings behind it are understandable. The other characters we see in the hotel Deucalion are all a hodgepodge of eclectic, exciting, colourful creations - ranging from a Vampire Dwarf, an opera singer and (my favourite) Fenestra the Magnificat. She’s grumpy, competitive and a previous cage fighter. Never did I realise I needed such a character in my life, but I did. Together they make a wonderful found family, and I loved them all - the hotel itself included, which feels like a character in itself. The writing is wonderful too. It’s full of humour and warmth that lights up the pages and makes the story feel even more magical than it is. There’s mystery and magical trials, adventures, zombies and races, all wrapped up with snippets of history about Nevermoor itself to help sustain and support the readers view of this world. It’s fast paced, but it doesn’t compromise on character development either, building up this wonderful story that hurtles full throttle to the end and a satisfying conclusion that also leaves it open for the series to continue. Honestly, this was the best middle grade book I’ve read this year. If not in the last couple of year. Highly, highly recommend and I can’t wait to read the next one.