It took me a long time to pick this up. I always loved the cover, but something about it kept me from thinking it was going to be up my alley. I was wrong and I’m glad I finally decided to give this one a chance. It probably turned into a 3.5 star book for me but I’m rounding up.It’s definitely a different sort of book – it’s got a very Victorian feel. I guess this should be obvious given that’s the sort of setting the author is trying for, but sometimes that feels like a barrier from me connecting fully to the book. It’s almost as if the book begins to feel as prim and proper as the characters strive to be and that’s definitely not my personality. Plus this is less about dragons than I really thought it was going to be. Dragons are involved, but the book and the plot seem to swirl around them rather than getting involved too directly. I guess it’s just at odds with most fantasy books where the dragons can talk, or at the very least, have a larger than life presence. Not to say that I didn’t like this take on them, it’s just different from what I’ve come to known of dragons.  Lady Trent is a fun protagonist. She had a bit of the cliché “Victorian girl who’s not quite like the others” aka she’s smart, plucky, and wants to be a badass in a man’s world. It’s not a bad cliché but just sort of obvious. I did like that she makes mistakes and acknowledges them. The rest of the characters are a bit flat for me. It’ll be interesting if they re-appear in sequels. Hopefully if they do some depth gets added as I don’t really think any of them added much to the story.The plot does meander a bit. It’s a bit of an origin story before we get anywhere near what seems to be the core of this book and the formula for the books going forward. It’s not terrible but a bit much of the plucky girl turns plucky woman which we’ve all read before. The core of the book has a bit of a mystery thrown in. It felt a tad underdone and I think just too much time was spent on the origin story to have time to fully dive into a mystery. But the book is pretty short so I think it was well-done for the amount of pages given to it.All-in-all I’d recommend this book. I’m definitely going to continue on in the series. It’s fun and quite easy to read. Hopefully they get even better.