By right, I should have loved and adored this. A regency-style world, very Austen-y, with a strong female lead and with the added spice of DRAGONS! Sadly, I'm not really all that charmed.We have here the first volume in the "auto-biography" of Lady Trent, a scholar of dragons. In this first volume, we follow her childhood and teenage years until she gets married and a bit further. She's always been a bit of a tomboy and a bookworm, to say nothing of her love for natural history. After finding a particular tome in her father's library, she loves nothing more than dragons (which I can relate to). For in this world, they aren't mythical creatures but wild animals!One day, she meets the perfect husband, Jacob, gets married and even manages to talk him into taking her on an expedition (highly unusual for a woman back then).Heartbreak and elation follow in equal measure as we accompany Lady Trent on her way to scholarly fame.The idea of a book about the natural history of dragons fascinated me. I have always loved reading about naturalists such as Charles Darwin, Alexander von Humboldt and others and how they started or at least heavily influenced the scientific process culminating in what we know and do today, so the idea of a (fictional) female naturalist not giving a damn about convention and travelling the globe to study THE fantastical creatures invented by human minds, sounded wonderful.Sadly, while the writing isn't bad and while the characters aren't terrible (though also far from lively and nuanced) and while the events are interesting enough, I was never sucked in the way I had anticipated/hoped and I just can't imagine reading 4 more books like this (albeit about other dragon species / exploits).Makes me want to cry, really, but here we are. I am wondering if I'm just in a strange mood and if that might have influenced (marred) my enjoyment of this tale or if it was the fact that there were hardly any dragons here on top of my other complaints. Since I'm not entirely sure, I'm giving this 2.5 stars but rounding up.