UPDATE: $2.99 Kindle US today 12/23/20November Fairyloot ♥ More pictures linked below ♥BOOKISH THINGSHoly shite balls! I loved this freaking book and I have a new favorite author and I hope the rest of the books in the series are just as good! I love some bad arse woman in books. I had about 20 gifs of bad arse women to go with this statement but we will just go with a couple or so.... =D This story is about Eliana and Rielle. This is told from both of their stories, one from the past and one in the present. I'm not going to get to heavy into this book as it comes out in May 2018. Both women have wonderful characters in their stories. They have magic and they do good things and not so good things. It's a world people, a world full of everything! I love it! Fighting, killing, plotting, magic, assassins, angels, etc .... I'm going to add a few excerpts that are actually some chapter headings:"Since our war with the humans began, I have had only one dream. Every night, the fog surrounding it lifts, and I understand more of what I see: a woman, made of gold brighter than the sun. She stands in a river of blood, and light falls from the ends of her hair. Is she friend or foe? This my dreams have not made clear to me. But I know this: she will come. In this war, or the next-she will come." -Lost writings of the angel Aryava ***"Lift your eyes to the eastern skiesWait for the sun, and with it-riseWe will march down the roads gone black with the deadWe will tear down their walls and paint their crowns red."-A rowing song composed by suspected Red Crown ally Ioseph Ferracora during the siege of Arxara Bay***"Dark-hearted Tameryn had never seen anything good come by daylight. With her daggers, she carved shadows from every corner and hollow. She breathed life into their gasping mouths, twined them around her limbs and neck, tied their newborn fingers into the ends of her hair. There the shadows whispered secrets to her, in gratitude, and so she was never alone, and always safe in the shroud of night." -The Book of the SaintsThis book made my day! Happy Reading! Mel ♥MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List