The Dragon's Path is the first book in a planned 5 book series. I found it very similar to ASOIAF in the complexity of it's characters and the scope of the political and military struggles. Abraham has worked with GRRM for many years and he's obviously learned a lot in his time getting coffee, helping kill off the Starks and fighting off angry fans who want to know when 'Winds of Winter' will be released. This book is told using the same chapter/POV style as ASOIAF. After reading a lot of books lately with sloppy, rapidly changing POV's I really appreciated the distinct and unique POV chapters of each character. The more personal voice in these chapters made it easier for me to get involved with the story. It also allowed the characters (the 4 main POV's especially) to be developed extremely well. The draw-back of the split-up chapters as opposed to the WoT style of having a character's chapters run together is that at times it disrupted the flow of the individual narratives. It also resulted in me frequently skipping past the chapters of less interesting characters (looks at Marcus Wester*) to reach my favourites.The standout character for me was Geder Palliako. Early on Geder establishes a connection with the reader due to his love of speculative fiction...er, I mean essay. However the jocks involved in this military campaign don't approve and proceed to wedgie him, take his lunch money and give him the medieval equivalent of a swirly. This sets the stage for Geder's arc aka 'Revenge of the nerd'.  Geder's burning of Vanai was one of the most unexpected and shocking moves I've seen from a fantasy protagonist and completely changed the complexion of the character and the story. On the downside I felt his initial ruthlessness and determination in carrying it out made a weird contrast with his later remorse and guilt. The motivation for a normally meek guy to take such extreme action always seemed somewhat thin. I also felt that the motivation for Geder, a frail bookworm, to go on an arduous journey into an unforgiving desert were badly explained.  Overall I found Geder's arc in this book to be one of the most compelling I've ever read.The other star character for me was Dawson Kalliam. Dawson seemed to me to be a cross between the Ned Stark/Leo Atreidas mould of being a good family man and an honourable lord and the scheming, stuck up nobles that populated the background of The Wheel of Time. His plotting gave us the best insight into the politics going on in Antea and along with Geder were the most interesting chapters. I also found him to be a really well-written morally ambiguous character. He was an ambitious schemer who was willing to deal with his nations enemies to further his plans and is determined to keep the 'peasants' oppressed. However he was also a loving father and husband, a brave warrior and a loyal supporter of the king. Also he had a load of puppies. Puppies! The other 2 characters Cithrin and Marcus West weren't as interesting. Cithrin spent most of the book as a classic fantasy trope, an orphan lEaving her home for the first time in her life due to attacks from a dangerous enemy. She is sent on an important mission that takes her on an arduous journey across the world. However about half way in her chapters become interesting as she comes into her element as a merchant banker. Her scheming and plotting was interesting and she provided an insight into economics and how it affects politics and war that is apparently a big part of the series. Another interesting break with traditional fantasy was her realistic approach to sexuality. Most male fantasy authors tend to write their female main characters as pure and chaste (see pretty much every female WoT character, Arista in Riyria) and even edgier writers err towards this with their female leads (Catelyn, Sansa and Arya in ASOIAF). However Abraham breaks with this tradition, which makes Cithrin a much more interesting and believable character. While Cithrin became more interesting as the story goes on Marcus never did. He is the archetypal tough, experienced soldier, his backstory even includes the tragic death of his wife and daughter. As I read this book I couldn't help but compare him to Logen in The Blade Itself. The comparison wasn't kind. I realised that Logen also fell into this character archetype but that I never noticed it at the time. Maybe that's because Logen was so much funnier, more likeable and generally badass. Perhaps the difference between them that was most striking however was that Logen really seemed like a grizzled veteran, a survivor. I remember his speech early on in 'The blade itself' where he describes how he has fought in wars, battles and raids and how he had killed without mercy and begged without shame for his life. In comparison despite being an experienced soldier Marcus is still a romantic hero. According to one exchange with his second helping a refugee escape the pursuit of a hostile army with a fortune drawing even more danger to them is just business as usual. This attempt to blend cynical realism with idealistic heroism seemed forced and I struggled to view Marcus as a realistic character. Even on his own merits Wester felt like a shallow, clichéd character and I really had to struggle through his chapters to find out what would happen to Geder. Overall this was a really enjoyable start to a series that I have high hopes for. I'm really interested to see how the intriguing characters and vast political struggles introduced in this book develop as the series goes on.