OK, so this is a weird book.The fact Martin, GRR is a buddy did not help. Because I could not escape the feeling of heavy influence on our present author.It seems Daniel has heard of epic books and that, if you want praise from Martin, should contain dragons, puppet shows, nice clothes, a sense of noble melancholy and pending doom, characters that are gritty and confused and human, and such like.Sounds good.But the execution is, like I mentioned, weird. First, there are three or four main characters, and they all start pretty strong. Interesting, colorful, flawed. But the only one that remains interesting is Geder Palliako (a Ukrainian folk dancer). The rest, Cithrin, Markus and Dawson all become kind of boring. They do not change, they repeat their points over and over, and they brood without any hint as to why this is useful or contributory to the story. Almost autistic.You can't really sympathize with any of them. Situations are portrayed without any emotional investment or depth, and you don't care what happens. There's nothing cataclysmic about any of the so-called danger scenes, no real feeling of dread, anguish, pain or anything. More like a recital or a report. Beautifully written, with nice descriptions, but nothing that touches the soul.Furthermore, the book's plot is difficult. It lacks coherence. There's no real point to the background story of dragons - and spiders, WTF, they show up at the last page, uh suspense, a cliffhanger, more like Earthquake Scale 14 suddenly dropping on you, but for no good reason except to wrap the story that does not lead to any satisfying conclusion.It's about nobles fighting their dirty little games - reminds you of someone - and there used to be dragons once upon a time - reminds you of someone - and then you also have the mysterious monk that can do wonders - cliche to the point no faking, cooking MCs like a pound of bacon - and then what? Why do we need Marcus? Or Cithrin? What's their purpose? What does their story have to do with anything? Something relevant in the third or sixth volume of this series? What's your point Vanessa?Crazily, in retrospect, looking back at my readings throughout 2014, I tried many of the new hits recently, and the only one that left with anything approaching cozy nostalgia, in a sense that I felt engaged (with a big fat disclaimer) in the story beyond the immediate reading thrill, is, absurdly, the second novel in the Locke Lamora series, even though it was significantly worse than the first one, and much worse reading and prose and quality material than the rest of them. But at least it gave a feeling of HOME. The rest are all carefully orchestrated, well oiled screenplays with accurately balanced doses of grit, drama, suspense, gore, and such, but little to no soul. Authors writing excellent stuff that they do not relate to in any way. You can tell. You can feel it. It's wrong. And super wrong with this novel.This is nothing specific to The Dragon's Path, but this book really clarified it. In a way, it eroded my emotional attachment, which is not a good thing. Exhausted me even. All this, despite the fact the story was ok, the writing very good, and the plot, all in all, readable and enjoyable. A crazy duality that is very difficult to explain. Like cartoons you watch as a kid and love and hate at the same time, but you must stay and watch and watch until your eyes melt or your parents take out the belt. A rhyme there.I'm frustrated, because it took me six or seven paragraphs to try to explain how I feel, and I can't really do it, except that a good meal does not mean an enjoyable restaurant experience, and that's what we have here. Something does not gel. Weird. Really weird. Paradoxical. And emotionally scarring. Daniel has done the impossible then. He's taken Martin's style, unwrapped it, and then packaged it in a way that leaves you no satisfaction. Like a nice adult movie without a money shot.A limerick!Geder was a fatsome bloke,Vanai he left in a cloud of smoke,Daniel's path,Invoked my wrath,With this book, the genre he broke.Bye bye,Igor