Edit, 2022: pals it’s been nearly EIGHT YEARS since I posted this review. I don’t care if you disagree. Good for you if you do, but I don’t need to hear about it. Any comments disagreeing with what I’ve said – or defending any of the choices made by anyone involved in publishing this book – will be deleted. Go have a cry about my opinion about a book no one even talks about anymore somewhere else, thanks ✌🏻 (Also I sincerely doubt this one review is going to affect NG in the slightest, so definitely don’t feel like you have to stand up for him. He won’t even see it. He’s got better things to do with his time than look at things posted on Goodreads almost a decade ago, and frankly so do I.)Edit, 24 November 2019: You know what? I’m bumping this down to two stars because I’m still just as bitter and annoyed about it, five years later. And to everyone who claimed I’d imagined it being marketed as a LGBT retelling: here’s a link to the new edition published this year by Scholastic UK, WITH THE SNOW WHITE/SLEEPING BEAUTY KISS ON THE COVER. What the fuck do you call that, then, if not LGBT marketing? Take several seats, all of you 😒In conclusion: fuck Neil Gaiman and his half-assed attempts at queer rep. Don’t even get me started on Good Omens, that was all Michael Sheen and you know it.Original review, 21 October 2014:The first thing you should know: this is NOT a lesbian retelling of Sleeping Beauty. I'm sure you've all seen the Chris Riddell illustration of Snow White kissing Sleeping Beauty awake by now, and will have seen this book lauded as LGBT representation. It is not.Suffice to say, I was let down. I was expecting a properly queer retelling and that's not what I got. What I got was one sweet lady smooch and one (admittedly beautiful) illustration to accompany it...and that was all. Literally. Not true love's kiss. Not anything's kiss. The kiss was as impersonal as bringing a clockwork automaton back to life by winding its mechanism. I waited to give this book a rating because if I'd rated it as soon as I finished it would have only got two or three stars - that's how annoyed I was with it. However, I am bumping it up to four because for starters, nothing Neil Gaiman writes is ever BAD, Chris Riddell's illustrations are beautiful as usual and the production quality of the book is flawless. It is a VERY attractive book and the story itself is whimsical and lovely and filled with lots of amusing side characters, like all good fairy tales. Finally, I'm giving it four stars because there is a truly EPIC twist that I would have absolutely loved if I hadn't been so thirsty for proper lesbian representation.If the lack of proper queerness will not bother you, you will probably love this book. If you're looking for a book to be the answer to your lady-loving fairytale prayers, then this is not the book you're looking for. (And in that case, I recommend Ash by Malinda Lo, which is still not perfect but it's a damn sight better than this.)