Behold- the best retelling of the taking of Persephone to exist.Ever. Lore Olympus is a modern spin on the original tale of Hades kidnapping Persephone to be his wife (doesn't happen like that in this version obviously, it's 2021 people). In this retelling, Persephone is a college student, studying at a university in Olympus. She grew up living a rather sheltered life with an overprotective mother (Demeter), who has only allowed her to come to the city because she's on a scholarship from the Goddesses of Eternal Maidenhood, meaning she has to remain a sacred virgin. Persephone is staying with Artemis, one of the members of the organization. On her first night in the city, Artemis takes Persephone to one of Zeus's parties, where Hades sees her for the first time. He is  completely  smitten and comments to his brothers that she "puts Aphrodite to shame." Upon hearing this, Aphrodite gets Persephone very drunk and puts her in the back of Hades' car, to teach her a lesson for "smiting the goddess of beauty."Hades finds her there when he gets home, takes her in, and lets her stay the night. Persephone wakes up very confused and embarrassed, but Hades explains the situation to her and she relaxes a little bit more. They talk (and fliiiirrt) and soon it becomes clear Persephone is equally smitten with the king of the dead. He takes her home, and after that, they can hardly stop thinking about each other. But of course, they can't be together because Persephone is supposed to be a candidate for the goddesses of eternal maidenhood. That is- until freaken piece of trash immortal garbage piece of f8929king shit Apollo shows up. (trigger warnings up ahead, dealing with sexual abuse)Apollo is taken aback by Persephone's beauty and proceeds to be a total condescending and controlling asshole, freaking  wakes her up in the middle of the night and freaken rapes her and takes pictures of it  and yeah obviously I hate him. This is kind of where we leave off at the end of volume one. Volume one only covers episodes 1-25 (out of, 191 episodes that exist on webtoon, as of now), this review is ONLY FOR EPISODES 1-25 I have tried to review this a couple of times but obviously, as you can see, the plot is very fast-moving and dense and it's hard to break it down unless it's in smaller chunks.My thoughts:This is one of the GoodReads choice award winners where I was like, "YESS, THIS IS THE ONE THAT SHOULDA WON" The art in this series is  freaking amazing,  the style is so beautiful and unique and even if the plot wasn't all that great (FYI it is fantastic), I would still give it 5 stars for the art. Even though the subject matter is often heavy, this series still manages to be  incredibly  funny and adorable, Persephone is basically a conscious incarnation of a cinnamon roll. The plot is twisty, I think one of the reasons it's so great is because as a book that was originally a webtoon, the author has to leave you wanting more after every chapter so you keep coming back for the updates, which I think makes for a very fast-paced and captivating plot that always keeps you guessing. Also Persephone and Hades- just- mwah, perfection. This is one of my ALL TIME FAVORITE SERIES EVER!!! Even if you don't know a whole lot about Greek mythology, I would still give this a shot, the art is wonderful, it's super adorable and hilarious, but also a beautiful and powerful story about dealing with trauma and finding your place in the world. <3