"Now the days of winter begin, and the Goblin King rides abroad, searching for his bride."Two things were popular during the Paranormal Romance wave of the early 2010s: Fey and the Greek myth of Hades and Persephone. They were part of the flood of beautiful, extraordinary men and the semi-abusive relationships they had with the heroine. Wintersong belongs in that era."I could hurt you," the Goblin King said, and I felt that promise in his hands. My lifeblood in his grip, my throat bared to him in submission."Dangerous men are over and done. Dangerous men who are secretly cinnamon rolls are buried so deep in the pop culture archive, we need to send Rick Roll armed with stolen breadsticks after them. The Goblin King is supposed to be this ancient, immortal force of pure nature, but he acts like a teenage boy. He blushes constantly and gets all flustered when Liesel storms half-naked into his room. Liesel is this plain, self-sacrificing relic of a heroine that belongs with the Goblin King in the two-for-one bargain bin. Her sister is, of course, beautiful and flirty and empty-headed. But because she's a good girl, she'll sacrifice her ambition for her family until, ironically, she gains freedom through her marriage to the Goblin King.I have serious beef with how the romance functions within Liesel's personal character arc. It's portrayed as this self-defining thing; without it, she's just boring old Liesel. Her life is mentally mapped out as Before and After the Goblin King. Being with him makes her a woman, someone to be respected. He's the one who convinces her she deserves more than that provincial life, which places her self-worth dangerously deep in his debt.And there's the ridiculous "my monster" thing again. Oh, my Goblin King wouldn't do that. This cruel cold stranger is someone else, the twin brother he absorbed in womb perhaps.No circa 2010 novel is complete without subtle girl shade either:"Because a man could spend a age--and believe me, I have--with an endless line of beautiful brides, their names and faces blurring before him. Because you--queer, unlovely you--I would remember."The plot, like I mentioned, is a romanticized version of Hades and Persephone. Liesel is imprisoned underground after making a bargain with the Goblin King and dresses in pretty gowns while bonding with her beautiful, immortal husband. Her original quest was hunting down her sister Kathe, who had been seduced underground, but after Liesel finds her at an enchanted party, she decides to get sloppy drunk instead of making plans or breaking out. That doesn't have much of an impact on the plot, but I just wanted to let you know exactly what kind of protagonist you'll be getting in Wintersong.All this stuff masked the good parts, like Liesel's love for Kathe and her little brother Josef. The final twist was quite good and unexpected. But I wanted something different—a more original and morally grey love interest, Kathe to play a bigger part, the heroine to achieve self-worth through alternative means. I wanted apples, but Wintersong gave me pomegranates.