Buddy read with Maymin ❤Wintersong is a beautiful book. Beautiful, dark, mysterious, and captivating. It is a book that deals with a wide range of themes: Love, pain, selflessness, selfishness, sacrifice, family, music, strength, insecurity, and confidence.Wintersong is apparently a retelling of the movie Labyrinth. I have never watched Labyrinth, so I had no idea what to expect. However, I was told it resembled the book Caraval, a 2017 favorite of mine. The first half definitely resembled it and I think both Caraval and Wintersong were executed wonderfully. I was quite worried picking up this book due to the mixed reviews. I didn't want to be disappointed, and I had high hopes I'd love it. I'm so glad I wasn't disappointed. However, I'm sad I didn't love this book as much as I'd hoped. It had its ups and downs. But I did love it. S. Jae-Jones is a brilliant author. Her writing is absolutely magnificent. I was so positively overwhelmed by it. It was captivating and so beautiful and magical. Honestly, wow. Just wow. Her creativity, her imagination, her wonderfully flawed characters... all of it was just great.“Your music," he said at last. "Your music was the only thing that kept me sane, that kept me human instead of a monster.”Wintersong is basically split into two halves: the first half is similar to Caraval (the Goblin King takes Liesl's sister and she has to play the Goblin King's game in order to get her sister back. The second half deals with Liesl's emotional well being and how she deals with the aftermath, which was done excellently. However, during the second half is where I think the book started going a tad downhill for me. Yes, things are revealed, yet there's a lot of questions unanswered (obviously for the sequel). Something was missing, something was lacking. Some of the events and aspects weren't properly explained. Stories were thrown into the plot here and there and I still couldn't connect some of their relevance to the actual plot.We also see character development in Liesl. She goes from a selfless, self-sacrificing young girl to someone putting herself first. As for the Goblin King, I really liked the mysterious aura surrounding him. He's still an enigma and there's more unanswered questions about him than answered. I'm quite excited to find out more in the sequel. Finally, I enjoyed the romance between Liesl and the Goblin King. There was chemistry and I was so invested. They're great together! Yet, I was told the ending is painful and tear-inducing. Was it? Not really. I felt... neutral. I don't know why. It was sad no doubt, but it just didn't bring tears to my eyes.Wintersong is a beautiful novel filled with emotion and magic. Despite how it lacked in a few areas, I still think it's marvelous and I absolutely can't wait for the sequel!