Disclaimer: I decided to read this series in chronological order instead of publication order, as Petrik Leo recommends. You’ll probably enjoy it more if you have already read The Riyria Revelations since you’ll have the chance to know the origin of your favorite duo instead of meeting them for the first time like me. Hadrian is the perfect gentleman: a bit naive, everyone loves him within minutes and never kills if it’s not needed. He is traveling to meet Arcadius in order to know what his father left him before he died. But there might be an assassin in the boat who doesn’t want him to make it alive… Royce is the perfect criminal: quiet as a cat, never leaves loose ends and kills just in case. He’s one mission away from freedom and has everything under control. Until Arcadius decides that it’s not enough to steal a book from the most guarded, tallest surviving structure built by humans, Royce also has to bring a very clumsy guy with him. Luckily, he only needs to wait for Hadrian to kill himself… “I only ask one thing. () When you fall to your death, do so quietly.”By SzacsiThe Crown Tower is a very slow paced book whose enjoyment relies heavily on characters, humor and dialogues -which happen to be my favorite trifecta. Everything that happens in the book can be summarized in a few paragraphs, but the journey is what makes it special. I LOVED Hadrian and Royce dynamics. Hadrian is the kind of character you want to marry, have as best friend and party with. Charming, friendly and noble, he has all the morals Royce lacks. “You don’t believe in right and wrong? Good and bad.”“Sure, right is what’s good for me, and bad is what I don’t like.()”Royce is the kind of character you want as best friend if you want to murder someone. He hates everyone, doesn’t trust his own shadow and keeps killing innocent people who happen to be on his way. The author knew how to exploit the potential of these complete opposite individuals to create the best banter and most hilarious dialogues. I can see myself reading entire books just to see them bickering.Hadrian realized he did have a reason to live. If nothing else, he refused to give that bastard the satisfaction of being right.Besides Hadrian and Royce, there are chapters following Gwen, a woman able to see a person’s future by looking into their eyes. Following her deceased mom’s wish, she stays in the city waiting for a mysterious man, where she survives by working as a whore. When one of her coworkers gets murder and everyone else is in danger of suffering the same fate, she’ll try to build a better future for them all. But if she falls, instead of saving them she’ll have led her friends to their death… The amount of fantasy is very low, I’ve read magical realism books with more fantasy in them, and it appeared mainly as paranormal elements that gave the story a bit of charm while promising more in the following installments. The writing lingered a bit too much in details for my taste, but it also gave internal thoughts that helped understand and fall in love with the characters. “I’m not going to kill these people,” Hadrian said. “They’re nice people.”“How do you know?”“I talked to them.”Although I’d have loved to see more fantasy and a faster pace and, The Crown Tower was a joy to read. There are very few fantasy books where your brain doesn’t explode at first and you can let yourself immerse in the story and just chill. If you want the dialogues and the characters, you won’t be disappointed. I’m super hyped to read more because I love Hadrian and Royce’s bromance and I’m dying to see it grow stronger. I can already imagine how Royce is going to save Hadrian for his naïve nature and protect him at all costs, while Hadrian is going to teach him what having a real friend who loves him feels like. “He and I, a team?” Royce smirked. “Yes, a team, partners, as two people working together, pooling their talents for a common goal. In elvish () they call it -”“Riyria.”PS: I enjoyed the author’s note sooo much, I was probably biased during the entire thing. I mean, look at this: (...) It’s the classic story of a husband whose wife falls for another man-a more dashing and charming agent. It sounds tragic, but this tale is a bit different because the love affair is between a real woman and a fictional man. My wife has developed an infatuation for Hadrian Blackwater. I’m not sure how I feel about enabling my wife’s relationship with another man, but at least I know this guy is trustworthy. ↬ The Riyria Chronicles (prequel): 1. The Crown Tower: 3 stars2. The Rose and the Thorn: 3 stars3. The Death of Dulgath: tbr4. The Disappearance of Winter's Daughter: tbr↬ The Riyria Revelations: tbr