If you seen my "reviews" of any of my books, you know I use this space to update people on various aspects of the books such as sales or specials. Update 7/29/19: ON SALE for just $5.00 on Audible.com Now until August 4th. That's a savings of 82% so if you listen to audioboooks, now would be a great time to start into the Riyria Chronicle series!Update 5/23/18: This book (along with 8 other epic fantasies from the likes of Brandon Sanderson, Naomi Novik, Robin Hobb, and others) has been selected for Audible's Summer Listen 2-for-1 Sale. Since it's the first in the series, this is an excellent time to dive into the series that takes place 10 years before the events of the Riyria Revelations. Here are the other books on sale:But you have to hurry, the sale ends May 24 at 11:59 PM PDT.Update 12/05/17: The fourth Riyria Chronicle (The Disappearance of Winter's Daughter) is "soft released" today. What is a "soft release"? Well it means you can get the book by buying directly from me, but the books won't be in the retail stores until after the Age of War release (due to a non-compete clause in my current contract. So, if you want more adventures with Royce and Hadrian, you're in luck!Update 09/26/12:  When I finished The Riyria Revlations I secretly hoped that they would be successful enough so that I could write more stories with two of my favorite characters: Royce and Hadrian. The books have been out for less than a year, but already it looks like a big success. By my calculations the series has sold more than 200,000 copies (including the self-published versions). I'm being very careful about additional works related to the world of Elan. I don't want to overstay my welcome. We all know television series, or book series, that stayed around long past their time, and it is a sad thing indeed. I won't let that happen to anything that I create.But, feedback has that people want more Royce and Hadrian, and as I love writing them (and my wife constantly bugged me) I was more than happy to write more...as long as I still had compelling stories and could pen a riveting tale.I think I've accomplished this in the next installment. This book, and the series, actually go back in time and explore the founding of Team Riyria. For those who have read the last installment of The Riyria Revelations (Heir of Novron) you'll know I setup my dominoes in a very careful way, and I liked watching everything fall into place. I didn't want to risk ruining that by "tacking" on to what was designed to end as it has. I'm not saying I won't one day write books "on into the future" after the final revelations...a lot will depend on the readers, and whether they want to see more. Again I'm going to be cautious and plan to "quit while I'm ahead" rather than dragging it out and have people disappointed.