The Crown Tower is the first book in the Riyria Chronicles, this book is also a prequel to Riyria Revelations, I know I should have read this before Revelations but I didn’t, I read the series haphazardly. The order the three series set in the same world should be read are1. Legends of the First Empire2. The Riyria Chronicles3. The Riyria Revelations And I read them in this order-The Riyria Chronicles-Legends of the First Empire -Riyria Revelations.So if you’re a stickler for chronological order you can read the actual order but if you’re like me then you can read the published order, the event in all the series took place in different times and Legends of the First Empire have different characters so you won’t get confused with whichever series you begin with.The events in this book focused on how Royce and Hadrian met and their first job together, I never imagined that this is how it happened, given how they are in Riyria Chronicles. The things that stuck out in this book is the friendship and standing up for oneself.I finally know what Riyria means, apparently it’s partnership. “Yes, a team, partners, as in two people working together, pooling their talents for a common goal. In elvish they have a word for it. They call it—”“Riyria,” Royce finished for him.”I love the world building, the world was well depicted and the writing is quite straightforward, Mr Sullivan’s writing style usually lean towards contemporary than fantasy but I actually don’t mind, the book is written in third person multiple POV. There was no magic in this book, the fight scenes were very well written.CharactersI love the characters in this book, I can see how their development came about, very interesting.Hadrian didn’t exactly change, he’s so trusting here and somewhat naive, at the same time he is brave and selfless while Royce is a direct opposite, he is very cynical for good reasons, he believes everyone has an ulterior motive but I can see him warming up to Hadrian.Then there’s Gwen, Gwen is amazing, her past is worse than I thought, I’m glad she stood up for herself.PlotHadrian is at a crossroad in his life, being a soldier isn’t as glorious as he thought, he doesn’t know what to do with his life while Royce owes a debt to someone and the man says the condition for paying up the debt is to work with Hadrian as a partner.Gwen’s part of the plot is all spoilery so read and find out.