‘Unhappy the land thatis in need of heroes’Bertolt Brecht.
From all Abercrombie's books that I've read, this book is by far my favourite, its a military fantasy with a dash of politics, this book is in five parts, Before the battle, day one to three of battles then after the battle, the whole book is filled with gruesome explicit battle, it was awesome, the detailing is what I love most. Do not even get me started on the characters, almost all of them are morally ambiguous, I can count on one hand the number of actual good people in this book.
"Take victory quiet and careful, Rudd Threetrees used to say, ’cause you might soon be called on to take defeat the same way."
The world building and writing is one of the best that I've ever read, its no surprise Abercrombie is good at what he does, I think its safe to say that he's the best Grimdark author. The writing style adapted here is easy to comprehend and lots of old English is used, its unlike when authors use contemporary English for Epic Fantasy. This book is written in third person multiple POV of the main characters but during the battles the book was narrated by random characters.
‘You can’t say that civilisation don’t advance,however, for in every war they kill you in a new way’Will Rogers
The war in this book is about the Union and the North men, this book took place after Best Served Cold The three days battle happened on a valley called The Heroes in the North. The different factions of each army was so well portrayed, this book shows that when it comes to war, staying alive is more important than things like honour and following orders. 
‘Only the truly ignorant believe they have thought of everything.
Bremer dan Gorst is one of the protagonist of this book and even after been in his head I have no idea whether to like or hate him, Calder Bethod's second son reminds me of Prince Jalan in Red Queen's War by Mark Lawrence so of course I love him. Beck is another interesting character, he realised that war isn't all about glory but about blood, suffering, gore and death in the worst way possible. Sergent Tunny is also an awesome character, I totally understand his part in the book, not all soldiers are in the army for servitude.