Nasty, Brutish, and ShortLife is nasty, brutish, and short in Abercrombie's First Law World. But perhaps that's just the Great Leveller talking as they say in the North. "Heroes" is the second of the so-called standalone novels following the initial trilogy, but one should still read these novels in order to get the full background and history that adds so much depth to the story. On the surface, "Heroes" is a simple war story, detailing three days as two armies face off separated by a river and a pile of rock. It has a huge cast of characters. Don't worry about remembering all the names, by the end of the book they'll be old friends although heaven help us if we have friends like these. The real power of this novel is on the exploration of the characters on both sides of the scrimmage, measuring what makes a hero and what makes one something else. On the North side, you have a crew of barbarians akin to Vikings or Cimmerians to whom battle is all. Indeed, many of these mighty warriors can do little else. And, it being the North, one man's enemy today is one man's ally the next and vice versa. Loyalty is great, but it can change like your wardrobe. On the Southern side, we get more of a Catch-22 situation with officers promoted well past their ability and men stuck following orders even to their doom. There’s a sense in the more civilized army that those who are rewarded rank, nobility, and such didn’t come up through the ranks and prove themselves. Indeed, the only one among them near invincible in battle is neither looked up to nor given a high rank.Perhaps more than most fantasy novels about swordsmen and such this one offers up ironies about war. It’s not always a great battle between absolute good and absolute evil. Sometimes it doesn’t even make sense what you are fighting for or why your allied with this one who was your bitter enemy not too many moons ago. Those who fight these grim battles often know survival and death are often close at hand and often but a hair’s breadth away.