I’ve got a really great idea for a novel. Do you want to hear it? Okay, so here goes:Well I was thinking I could create a story in which everything relates back to the title. That way I could say the title over and over again. Wouldn’t that be fun? I mean I could write about heroes fighting at a place called the Heroes and then they could have a crisis about being heroes whilst worrying who has taken the Heroes and if enemy heroes are going to kill them. And then I could say heroes a few times more and relate all the events to heroics and consider what makes a hero a hero. Doesn’t that sound like one big heroic headache? See! I can do it too Joe. Maybe that makes me a hero. Damn I’m getting good at this. That isn’t the only reason I hated the novel, but it did piss me off the most. Nothing speaks the word redundancy more than an overly used metaphor. The entire novel also felt restrictive. It is essentially one big battle sequence. So, its layers of action upon action in the same boring place. I hated the end. I hated the beginning too. And I especially hated the middle. This is Joe Abercrombie’s worse book. Please bear in mind that I’m actually a big fan of this author. I’ve read all of his books, and this is the only one I strongly dislike. So, don’t hate me. I do like Joe Abercrombie, but not this book. Joe keeps telling us the same thing throughout. The characters keep lamenting (or rejoicing) the fact that they are not heroes. I mean……I think we get it. After the first few chapters it is clear that these guys aren’t nice people. That’s not a bad thing. I like dark characters, but I don’t need to be told every chapter what they are. 
SHOW IT TO ME. 
It became incredibly annoying. I think I can draw my own opinion; I don’t need to be told the author’s intent. So many chapters ended on the reminder; it became ridiculous. It’s a shame really because this novel could have been good. I just think it lacked the balance of his usual style. Abercrombie can do wonderful things with words. Sometimes it’s the short sentences, the phrases that hold so mush dramatic effect. In this he overused them that they only resonate with one thing: WEAKNESS.  I don’t care about any of it The characters that tell the story are just as bad. I really think Black Dow should have been the protagonist. The cover certainly made it look like it was his tale, but I can’t exactly blame the author for a misleading cover. That fault resides with the publisher. But at least Dow is interesting. Instead Abercrombie uses a bunch of weak and flat characters. I can’t even remember half of their names because they’re that unmemorable. One of them was a basic warrior, not much else. Gorst was an annoying blubbering wretch with some weird inferiority complex that made no sense because he was a huge and attractive brute. Calder was okay, but lacked motivation and presence in the story. They were a rather meagre bunch to be honest.See? I’m turning into a critic, though this did have some real problems. But I just didn’t care if these men lived or died. It felt like the author just shoved all the random non-essential characters from The First Law series into here and then let them fight it out. All it needed was the annoying, and overused, Cosca then it would have been a full house. There was no room for character development or investment, only cheap, thoughtless, blood. I just hope Abercrombie doesn’t write anything else like this in the future because this was nothing short of terrible.