If a Venn diagram showing who might love Black Leopard, Red Wolf existed, I think you’d find me quite snuggly nestled in its overlapping circles of fantasy and literary fiction. Since it was announced, I’ve been absolutely jazzed about Marlon James’ new novel. Though it was a lot of work, A Brief History of Seven Killings left an indelible mark on my literary consciousness and imagining what the man behind that novel could produce in the world of fantasy was positively electrifying. Black Leopard, Red Wolf lives up to those lofty expectations, but also manages to warp and distort fantasy conventions while building an entirely new scaffolding on which James builds the genre's next step in evolution.Our lead, Tracker AKA Mr. Ithasbeensaidyouhaveanose, opens the book by telling us we might as well quit while we’re ahead: the boy we’re interested in has bitten the dust. It turns out Tracker, who can find anyone in the world so long as he knows their scent, is being put to 20 questions by an unpleasant sounding Fetish Priest. Despite a pretty good opening answer, the inquisitor still wants to know all about Tracker’s search and rescue mission to get this mysterious boy. What follows is an oral account by the olfactory wonder, who is known the world over not only for his tracking abilities, but also for his bad attitude, saucy ripostes, and mad-good killing ability. You’ll get to meet his friend, the novel title-sharing Leopard, as well as the gang who sets off in search of the aforementioned boy. The squad’s a sort of psychologically damaged, drug-addled, sex-obsessed Fellowship of the Ring who are more in it for the money and murder than they are the altruism. A friend who’d read the book before me described it as, “The meth of the fantasy world.” Though I think the narcotic comparison is accurate—this is some of the most hardcore fantasy I’ve read—I have a slightly different take on the substances the book most closely resembles. If >A Brief History of Seven Killings is a cocaine-fueled, fast-paced, paranoia-packed, stimulant-enhanced journey, then Black Leopard, Red Wolf is a whole bag of psilocybin mushrooms taken on a walk through the woods. Though the book is nowhere near as challenging as A Brief History of Seven Killings, it is just as meticulously constructed and features endless hallucinatory and ambiguous passages. In point of fact, the first 100 pages or so gift the reader a painfully trying experience. Most writers try and give the reader a foothold from which they can take a vantage point on the world around them. By comparison, Black Leopard, Red Wolf threw me off the side of a cliff as I scrambled for any handhold. Indeed, for this reason I’m not at all surprised to read reviews that announce early abandonment of the novel.But, for those of you who do persist through the confusing and disorienting opening chapters, there’s a whole world of wonder on the other side. Mind you, the wonder is blood, semen, and shit splattered, but wondrous nonetheless. Put simply, this is a novel filled to the brim with such primordial world building that it should leave the seasoned fantasy veteran salivating at the world it slowly uncovers. There’s hardly a page that passes without some foul beastie making its debut or some strange practice throttling one’s mind. Or at least every page not spattered in sex and violence.Indeed, it should be said that this is not a book for the faint of heart in any way. This book is a sexpot and it is overflowing with straight sex, gay sex, monster sex, giant sex, and copious descriptions of the associated scents of such copulation. What’s more, the violence is visceral, brutal, and no man, woman, or child is spared the horrors of Marlon James’ world. This is a world in which children are butchered and their body parts sold to witches, where murder is the surest form of currency, and violent lust often takes center stage. James has said before that if you are going to write about violence, it should be violent. There’s no doubt that he follows through on that maxim and delivers some of the most stomach-churning scenes I’ve read in some time. Luckily, he also bangs out an action scene like no one else and makes some combat scenes that are nothing short of exhilarating. There are a few parts of the book that could have used some pruning. Some of the back-and-forth dialogue becomes infuriating in its repetition and ability to confuse the story. Though I praise James for making this book inscrutable and its narrator unreliable, some of these bits of conversation frustrated me where other inconsistencies were intriguing. What’s more, the start of the book didn’t feel like it needed to be so challenging. Though I enjoyed parts of it, there’s a sharp demarcation line between it and the rest of the novel in terms of readability. Evidently, I really had a great time with this book. Even when it was at its most challenging, I was intrigued, interested, and hesitant to put it down. The final fifty pages rocket towards a blood-soaked conclusion and when I came upon the last page I was crestfallen that more of this world wasn’t waiting for me. The ending is in many ways conclusive, but it also deftly sets up the second volume in which another character will retell the story from their perspective. I can’t wait to get my hands on it!Finally, the business of to whom I should recommend this novel. Rather than pointing to a fan of the fantasy genre or literary fiction crowd, I think the best litmus test is how much you like Marlon James. Because, if you enjoyed A Brief History of Seven Killings, then you’re going to find something to love in Black Leopard, Red Wolf. Despite all the hype and comparison, this book is simply the next Marlon James novel and a singular work that could have only sprouted from his pen. And, if you’ve never read one of James’ novels, buckle the hell up.