[I did something to the synopsis for TVD/Originals fans somewhere in there]First, let's get the overused but utterly true pun out of the way: just look at The Beautiful cover 😂 Funny, right!? No.Now, let's get serious. I'm hear to warn y'all that this is a Vampire conspiracy and the bloodsucking terrors of the night are back to take over. Yes. We. Are. Doomed. It's not a coincidence that Jay Kristoff is also publishing a vampire series in 2020, nope.And guess what? I'm 99.9% sure Niklaus Mikaelson is behind this comeback. Uhum, the Vampire King, the Original Hybrid, the Alpha, the Big Bad Wolf, the immortal bastard Klaus the Mad...What the synopsis says: In 1872, New Orleans is a city ruled by the dead. But to seventeen-year-old Celine Rousseau, New Orleans provides her a refuge after she's forced to flee her life as a dressmaker in Paris. Blah blah blah. She soon becomes embroiled in the city's glitzy underworld, known as La Cour des Lions, after catching the eye of the group's leader, the enigmatic Sébastien Saint Germain.What I hear: In 1872, amid the rule of the Original Family of Vampires known as the Mikaelsons in New Orleans (1700s-1919), seventeen-year-old Caroline Forbes flees her life in Mystic Falls to avoid being hunted down by the vampire hunters, coming to the vibrant city that enamours her with its music, food, soirées and—especially—its danger. She soon becomes embroiled in the city's glitzy supernatural underworld, after catching the eye of the hybrid king, the enigmatic Klaus Mikaelson.What the synopsis says: When the body of one of the girls from the convent is found in the lair of La Cour des Lions, Celine battles her attraction to him and suspicions about Sébastien's guilt, blah blah blah. New Orleans become gripped by the terror of a serial killer on the loose—blah blah blah; an age-old feud from the darkest creatures of the underworld reveals a truth about Celine she always suspected simmered just beneath the surface.What I hear: When the body of one of the witches is found headless and drained of blood, the city shakes with the terror of a ripper on the loose...a ripper well known in the underworld, none other than the ruthless Stefan Salvatore.Caroline is determined to uncover the truth of whether her old love is behind the murders...but in the city's pursuit of the serial killer, old feuds awaken and the three factions—vampires, werewolves, and witches—tear eachother apart, turning the city of life into a city of the dead where, with the excuse of keeping the peace, any who cross the line are viciously executed by the king, the very man who has stolen her heart.And Caroline wonders if Stefan isn't a loose criminal but, in fact, under Klaus's wing and protection, here to do his bidding—a tyrant with absolute power amidst the fear which has gripped the land...Yup, that sounds better *nods* this might as well be a Klaroline+Steroline fanfiction 😋 *goes to sulk in a corner waiting for someone to redo The Originals* welcome to New Orleans, I guess *huffs*