There was something odd about this book. Not entirely sure what exactly, but I'm thinking it might've been the setting. Waaaay too close to... my real life, so to say. I'm used to stories that happen in either a far-off realm, or a place I've been to, but with just the right twist to make it seem "fantastic". This one seemed all "huh, I could actually see it happening". As a computer programmer myself, I was lucky enough to go on a business trip to Silicon Valley, where I also visited the Google campus in Mountain View ... among other things *cue proud chest puffing*For all that I'm not a big fan of fiction with techie characters, this book actually depicted them quite well. The visit to Google, as a guest of an employee, was rather similar to my own experience. I, of course, can't vouch for the validity of the book scanner or the entire process of putting it on hold, but a quick Google (hah!) search tells me it's a real thing.I might have even seen something like Mr. Penumbra's book store. There are lots of cramped "mysterious"-looking second-hand bookstores in the San Francisco section of my long-term memory. Though they may not have been 100% like Mr. Penumbra's, I recall them having been close enough to serve as fodder for my imagination during reading.Now on to what I didn't like:So Clay, a designer with virtually no coding knowledge, learned enough Ruby( in a few days!) to build a 3D model of a bookstore, aaaand also animated it to observe possible patterns as to how they were being bought. FINE, so he might've been some undiscovered genius, who just needed the right incentive to unleash his inner geek. The animation pattern analysis though... not very likely.Next, there was just something off about the narrative style. It was easy to read... but it just didn't feel right. Perhaps it was the narration style that didn't really fit the book's theme? I couldn't say precisely now, but it just bothered me enough to affect the flow of reading.And last but not least, the epilogue. Ideally someone would just burn it, lest it starts breeding! I haven't been practicing my eye-rolling techniques so much since I watched... well never mind that now. Suffice to say, that the book would've been much better without it.As mysteries go, it's not a very exciting one, but I really liked Clay's resourcefulness. It seemed quite realistic too, and made me think "hey, that's actually a real-world solution that could work". So I guess it's not a complete loss... overall.