HOLY MOLY, BATMAN, EVERYONE SHOULD READ THIS. I am actually so excited to write this review... I HAVE SO MANY THINGS TO SAY!Because I have so many thoughts, let's do this bullet-point style.- This story was so positive and mood-uplifting! Geez. I never felt that horrible dread you feel sometimes when you're reading: that loss of faith with the author where you ask the horrible question "Is the author going to screw this all up?" All throughout reading the book there were moments where I felt the exciting jolt of panic.. “Oh no! What’s going to happen?!” but I never felt worry that the story would end badly. It was constantly fun and happy. It made me happy.- I LEARNED SO MUCH. Okay, as a person I love to learn new things, but the truth is that I don’t read very much non-fiction. When reading you are constantly learning new things through the decisions of people, by taking on new perspectives, but in this book I actually learned new facts and things! It felt like I was picking up interesting knowledge and it kept me excited to read.- There were so many great uses of setting in this book. Wowzapants. To places like Hogwarts, to places like Spy Kids, from Google to a knitting museum, this book never felt stagnant. It was fresh and exciting and the settings all felt so legitimate.- The best way I can describe the idea of this book is “National Treasure for Book Lovers”. I love the National Treasure movies, they are just a good ol’ time, and so was this book!- The characters were so complex! And there were so many of them! We had so many different secondary characters constantly being introduced but the writing never made them feel unnecessary… in real life we have people that we need for certain things but only interact with very little. This book had lots of different levels of interaction with people, which was new and great. Also, the characters were all super complex and fascinating. None of them felt flat or 1 dimensional.. they were all real people and were constantly surprising.- The collaboration between old and new. Between older people and younger people, older technologies and newer technologies, older thinking and newer thinking. Brilliant!- Speaking of technology, THE TECHNOLOGY. There was such an amazing use of different technologies in this book, but best of all they were all plausible. There are some movies and books where a character pulls out a tool that is specifically designed to solve the exact problem at hand and it’s so unrealistic… those tools can’t exist! But everything used in this book was real, and it made me feel like this adventure actually happened.- Finally, the main character. WHAT A MAIN CHARACTER! He is exactly the kind of lead you want in this type of story! Constantly clueless BUT TRYING HIS HARDEST, absolutely hilarious, and genuine and earnest.I had such a riot reading this book. And the best part? I know I’m going to love rereading and rereading this book until the end of my days. It was so well crafted and had me in smiles and laughs every time I picked it up. Ultimate recommendation!PS: A shout-out to my main men, Jesse from JesseTheReader and Dylan from DylanBooks, for reading this with me! Talking to them throughout the reading made it even more fun! The mystery had us going and it took us to a happy place :)