This book sounds like a dream, but ended up being a nightmare. I’ve been deceived. Duped. Cheated on, or whatever you want to call it: I’ve been tricked by this book’s intriguing premise and instead of getting a story about a mysterious old bookstore, I get a book overflowing with overused tropes, stereotypical characters and lots, LOTS of references to nerd culture, Google, and boobs.WFT happened? The first 100 pages were so promising! Clay gets a job at working the night shift at Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore, and he quickly starts to notice something strange going on. The few people who visit the store are a select, eccentric group of readers who come to loan a book every few weeks. When Clay decides to investigate one of those special books, he discovers that the bookstore is part of a secret society spread all across the globe, whose members are all guarding a very special secret. So that sounds all very thrilling and the plot reminded me of The Shadow of the Wind, but the bookstore is the only interesting part of this book. Because the story is spiritless, the writing isn't anything special (the first-person narrative actually really got on my nerves) and neither are the characters: all of them are paper-thin and one-dimensional. We have: -	A geeky, ordinary guy who suddenly gets to be the hero (Clay, our MC with zero personality and an everlasting love for a children’s fantasy book series. The guy is in his mid-twenties.) -	His wacky best friend (Neel, whose company made millions developing Boob-software and a dude who constantly makes D&D-jokes) -	A Manic Pixie Dream Girl as Clay's love-interest (Kat, who praises Google in every line she speaks. Next to that she’s beautiful and quirky and has GREAT BOOBS! and so basically she’s a Nerd’s Wet Dream brought to life)-	And to guide them there is Mr. Penumbra as the wise, old mentor (who has no problem sharing top-secret information with youngsters he barely knows and constantly calls Clay “my boy” like he is Clay’s grandpa). Of course we also have the old-fashioned leader of the secret bookstore-society who wants to stop our hipster heroes at all costs, but Corvina does little except call Penumbra an extremist and twirl his moustache. Very threatening.The mystery surrounding the secret book-society is laughable as well, because any trouble that the characters run into gets fixed by modern technology. Movable scanners, data visualization, and most of all Google (the real MC of this story): high tech is the solution to every problem. Too bad it also kills any suspense or excitement that this story could have. The ending to this uninteresting adventure is a letdown too and it only teaches Clay that you’re nothing without your friends: how original. So the biggest mystery of this book isn’t the one about the bookstore, but how this book got so much praise and popularity. Because in my opinion, it deserves none.