DNF at 50% DISCLAIMER: I normally don't do disclaimers but this time, I'd really like to warn those who liked the book to just stop reading further. I'm currently super pissed off and I'm not going to be polite about this. “Hair like sunshine, eyes like the midday sky, and pale skin that glowed against her delicate bones—it seemed impossible that someone so dainty and pretty could have used her magic to force an old woman to choke on apples all day long.”Because, as everyone knows, beautiful people can do no wrong. Only ugly people do bad thing, yall. I gagged when I read this.  This was unbelievable. And no, I’m not talking about this one quote. I’m talking about the whole damn thing - or at least the 50 % I managed to finish before my head exploded. Defiance was one of the dullest novels I had ever read: the plot was ridiculously boring and uneventful, the character development was mediocre at best and the writing was lacking. But that was a debut novel, so it was not particularly surprising. After all, most authors need a lot of experience to become good at writing. I would have never thought that one completed trilogy later, I would read a book by the same author that was, in my opinion, worse than their debut. I am speechless and disappointed, and it’s completely my fault for giving this new series a chance. This is what I get when I’m intrigued by a novel synopsis and ignore my gut feeling, screaming at me to get the fuck away. The writing was rushed, sloppy and completely unrelatable. I, honestly, cannot believe that Defiance seemed to be written in a better manner than this book. And my rating and appreciation of Defiance was close to the bottom. The narration sequence was illogical and most of the dialogue was forced and unnatural. People don’t sound like that in real situations at all. The characters were silly, their chemistry was below zero and they all had enough personality to pretty much fill a teaspoon. Again, see the quotes down below and you can pretty much get a good idea of what you have to deal with. The only good thing I can say is that there was a couple of original ideas. For example, the dual nature of the Draconi was an intriguing concept. The magic of the mardushkas was interesting in and of itself. Sadly, the few good ideas sank under all the bullshit. The main conflict goes along of the lines of : a cruel witch stepmother/aunt usurps the throne through black magic. The rightful heir to the throne, her brother and the captain of her father’s guard escape and go into hiding for nine years, Robin Hooding the tax collectors and distributing the goods to the poor. Meanwhile, the land is ravaged by sickness, there are no crops and people are literally dying of hunger. The evil bitch queen simply doesn’t care if - see quote below - there’s anyone left to rule over and lets her people starve. Enter a handsome prince - he doesn't shine with particular wit, but he's good-looking, so we'll forgive him that - who comes in to save his own kingdom by striking a deal with the evil queen. The prince and the princess meet and instead of killing each other, they device a plan to work together against the queen. You can picture how the rest goes. In all honesty, I wanted to like this. I really, really did. Alas, the Herculean effort I applied to finish at least 50% of the book, made it kind of obvious that it was not happening. Now, without further ado, let me present you with some quotes (all of them gathered from the initial third of the book, mind you). I could write a report on all I thought was wrong with this book, but giving direct quotes is better. These little gems are followed by my not-so-polite commentary mostly because I am super pissed off that I wasted 1. my time & 2. my money on this book: “I hope your journey wasn’t too arduous, my lord, and that you are in good health. When you have refreshed yourself with sleep, I would love to give you my undivided attention so that we may discuss various issues of interest to both our kingdoms.”Fakeness overload. You have to have an IQ lower than your show size to even think of saying something like that to an emissary/diplomat/whatever political creature. “We have to help them. We can’t wait another eighteen months like I’d planned, or there will be no one left to rule even if I do take the throne. We have to do something now.”Aww. The young would-be-queen is such a chivalrous creature - get the throne now because the evil queen is going to kill everyone and there’d be no one to rule over. You must be kidding me. How am I suppose to sympathise with this girl and support her claim? “More mead!” he roared over the deafening noise of a party that had been in full swing in an unused storeroom within the castle’s basement for over an hour.”“As he moved across the dusty storeroom floor, dodging raised mugs and bodies writhing in time to the thunderous beat of the drummers Kol had hired with the last of his monthly stipend, (…)”These two gems had me completely fooled for a good minute, during which I was trying to remember what kind of book I was reading. I flipped the cover and yup. It was fantasy. Supposedly a Snow White retelling…but somehow there’s a drum band - “bodies-writhing-in-time-to-the-thunderous-beat-of-the-drummers”-excuse-me - playing in the basement of the fucking castle. How did we get to a frat party in a fantasy retelling book? This is a new low for me. Honestly. “I’m so sorry to have to tell you this, but ogres attacked the reserve unit while your family was asleep in their tent. Your father is dead.”That was as subtle as an elephant in a china shop. Honestly, this guy shouldn’t be delivering bad new. He just majorly sucks at it. The fuck was this whole moment? There was no build up, nothing. Oh, btw, your parents died. The ridiculous frat party was described in more detail than this moment. “There was nothing Kol could do to stop them. Not without magic of his own. The realization was a blow Kol didn’t know how to absorb.”So, he realises this after spending 10 mins observing the battlefield. You want to tell me that his father - supposedly a good king with a lot of years of experience - his advisors and his much more talented brother did not arrive to this conclusion, whereas our failure of a prince immediately grasps the situation. I mean, royal offspring is not generally famous for having a lot of brain cells, but this one takes the cake. “The girl’s brown eyes were guarded. She had a smudge of dirt on one pale cheek, and her long dark curls were tangled from her sprint through the village, but even so, she was beautiful in a way that made Kol want to keep looking.”Aww. Of course, she’s a princess, so she has to be beautiful. And of course, our prince is going to notice. She thinks he’s pretty, too, if that’s any consolation. They are going to have a lot of pretty babies together. Spare me. If I have to be honest, this is nothing scandalous, but in combination with all the rest, I just got pissed off at the extreme level of shallowness. “Mirror, mirror, your depths I scry,” she said as power gathered in her palms and leaped toward the glass. “Show me the princess Lorelai.”I am absolutely certain there’s a particular place in hell reserved for bad rhymes. BONUS: There’s a gyrfalcon, called Sasha. I’m not even gonna...