I loved and adored this final book, it was the perfect finale. I’m going to miss these characters so deeply, I already do. I honestly can’t believe it’s really over. Now that I have the whole picture I can say that this was honestly one of the most well-written series I have ever read. Really, the Seven Realms deserves far more credit than it gets. I have so much to say about this fabulous world and characters I have come to feel such emotion for. If you’ve yet read to these books because you’ve heard less than flattering things: all I can say is to give it a real chance. Yes, the first book can be a bit difficult to get through, but it’s just the first piece of the puzzle and this series truly deserves to be read. So the Seven Realms is a magical world of royalty and nobility, wizards, the clans, and many more kinds of folk that we see little of for the most part, given that the series revolves mainly around one particular realm: the queendom of the Fells. In this world, the legend of the Demon King (a wizard who lived a thousand years ago) who is supposedly responsible for the Breaking, throwing the world into chaos, and Hanalea, the warrior Gray Wolf Queen who defeats him in the legend. As a result of all this, the Naeming forbids Gray Wolf Queens to marry wizards, and the clans (who practice only natural magic, herbs and the like, as well as provide flashpieces - usually in the form of amulets - for wizards) hate High magic and all those who practice it, and use the Naeming to keep wizards in check. Really, the indoctrinated racism in this series is sickening at times - on all sides. Complete with derogatory terms, discrimination and even murder practically whenever it’s possible for some to get away with it really. This series was also, obviously, very heavy on politics. If only real life politics were as interesting as these. The entire world setting in these books was just phenomenally built, I really can’t say it enough. It’s worth the read for that alone practically. Spoilers for books 1-3 nowOne of our main protagonists is Raisa ana’Marrianna, who we first meet as princess heir to the Gray Wolf Throne, and later becomes Queen after her mother Queen Marrianna dies an awfully suspicious death. Raisa is a firecracker with a surprisingly vulnerable heart and a crushing duty to her people, and I absolutely adore her. In the first book, Raisa was nearly forced into marriage by her spelled mother and the dispicable High Wizard to his son Micah, a wizard Raisa didn’t love, which was forbidden by the Naeming and would lead to war with the clans, and so was forced to flee her queendom. She travelled to Oden’s Ford, a military-like set of schools for soldiers and wizards respectively, with her best friend Amon - the son of the Queen’s Captain of the Guard who are sworn in to protect the law and the Gray Wolf line. Raisa loved Amon, but Amon’s magical bond of duty to her line would not allow them to be together. Heart broken, Raisa accepts that she will marry for political advantage as all the Queen’s before her, and throws herself into her studies. It’s at this time that Raisa once again crosses paths with Han Alister. Early in book one, Raisa left her palace to provide jewelry to fund the poor, and found herself taken hostage by the Streetlord “Cuffs” Alister when he was cornered by soldiers who would throw him back in gaol - a prison people rarely left alive. Han was - to Raisa’s surprise - relatively good to her and kept his distance, despite being completely unaware that it was the princess heir he’d taken with him at the time. Raisa had thought on her feet and called herself Rebecca. She was told later that Han was dead, since he’d faked his death in hopes of evading the Guard. When Raisa later went into the academy at Oden’s Ford under the name Rebecca Morley, and discovered Han was alive, she was thrilled, and began to unknowingly and unwillingly fall in love with him, despite that he now knew he was a wizard. Han was the first protagonist introduced, when he first met Micah Bayar and took a powerful serpent amulet from him, which was later revealed to have belonged to the Demon King, painting a target on his own back. Han had lived the majority of his life with Cuffs on his wrists that grew as he grew and never came off - resulting in his Streetlord name with his crew. When they were finally removed by the clans he’d fostered with, as a result of a deal with them to study and train at Oden’s Ford with the eventual objective of taking down High Wizard Bayar and the Wizard Council, Han discovered that the Cuffs had been absorbing his High magic. He was told he was a wizard and a descendent of Alger Walterlow, known as the Demon King of legend, and Hanalea, who had actually been in love with Alger, and so was very distantly connected to the Gray Wolf line. Han agreed to the deal, because Bayar and his children - Micah and Fiona - were responsible for the deaths of Han’s mother and sister, they’d burrned them alive when they could not locate the serpent amulet. His long time friend Hayden Fire Dancer was also revealed to be a wizard of unknown decent, as a result of an assault towards his mother. At Oden’s Ford, Han’s powers grew, and he travelled to the in-between dimension of Aediion. There he met an unknown and mysterious wizard named Crow, who began tutoring him secretly in Aediion, vastly improving Han’s magical ability in a very short time. Also in Oden’s Ford, he was shocked to once again cross paths with Rebecca, who he’d taken and released. He finds himself falling for her. Their relationship develops slowly in the months at school, since ‘Rebecca’ had agreed to tutor him in etiquette - at Crow’s request - with the story of being the previous servant to the Bayars. Han later discovers that Crow had been draining him of power and periodically possessing him, and so ceases to trust him.At the end of book two, Micah Bayar discovers that Raisa had been hiding out at the academy and kidnaps her with the intention of taking her back to the Fells to marry her. Han is unaware of this, and knows only that Rebecca and his enemies - the Bayars - have disappeared from school at the same time. The clans call him back to the Fells to prevent princess Mellony from taking the title of princess heir in Raisa’s mysterious absence, and so leaves Oden’s Ford, willfully leaving Dancer behind in hopes of protecting him, and is determined to find some trace of Rebecca along the way. Finally in book three, Han finds ‘Rebecca’ near dead - since Raisa is being hunted by those who would see the succession changed - and nearly sacrifices his own life to save hers. When they each wake in the camp, Raisa finally reveals the truth to Han. At first he feels extremely betrayed and used, and refuses any attempt on Raisa’s part to repair things. Eventually, though, he’s able to admit to himself that he still loves her and becomes determined to have her hand. He turns to his Dancer, and his old crew - including his friend Cat, who’d been with them at Oden’s Ford - and to Crow. He demands the truth from his tutor, and Crow admits that he had no magic of his own because he is only a remnant, and is no longer alive in the true world. He reveals that he is Alger Waterlow, much to Han’s disbelief. Thanks to Lucius, an immortal old man who’d employed Han as a young child - who was also once best friend’s with Alger, Alger’s story is confirmed. In the midst of all this, Wizard’s were being slaughtered in the queendom by an unknown assassin who was attempting to frame Han, with far too much success. Raisa is also being vied for by many different suitors, most influential being the clan Demonai warrior Nightwalker, who was also Raisa’s father’s choice for her hand. Raisa, being in love with Han, wanted to prolong any marriage alliance as long as possible, while at the same time being crushed under the weight of what may be best for her people. At Han’s request, Raisa had agreed to make him her personal bodyguard and gives him a seat on the Wizard Council, irking the clans who he’d made a deal with. Han and Raisa are both constantly pining after each other, which is unbelievably frustrating, but Han worries for both their lives if anyone discovers their feelings for each other, and so still attempts to keep Raisa at arm’s length most of the time.Finally some spoilers for this book. The Crimson Crown was extremely stressful, and an intense emotional rollercoaster. So much needed to be tied together, and Han and Raisa’s relationship was in the balance. It would have killed me if these two idiots hadn’t ended up together. I’m gonna go character by character here, starting with Dancer. I should have called his dad being Lord Bayar. He’s the most ruthless killer in the whole queendom, and the series’s main villain. Of course he would be deplorable and hypocritical enough to rape a clan woman and get her pregnant. One of my favorite parts of the entire book - more like the entire series - was Dancer and his mom confronting Bayar in front of Micah and the Wizard Council, with Han’s help of course. It was epic. I adore Dancer. He’s had it rough, being raised clan and then shunned for being a wizard. I loved how he came to respect himself and be grateful for his power, how he used both High magic and nature magic and was amazing at it. I also really liked his relationship with Cat, they were so different and yet so compatible. And I loved that Dancer was always there for Han. And Cat. Her character development was a beautiful thing, she started out as just a gang leader back in book one, but eventually came to recognize her talents and put her street skills to the best use. Her friendship with Raisa and Magret was adorable in this book, and who doesn’t love a girl who’s wicked with her knives? Amon and his Gray Wolves squad were sort of a less important presence in this later half of the series, but I’m glad he ended up relatively happy all the same. And I’m glad most of the lot of them lived through the series at least. Micah and Fiona were both just unbearably annoying. Fiona was nothing more than a conniving brat from minute one and her death was basically a relief. And Micah, I understand that he really did have feelings for Raisa and was a relatively good and loyal guy when it came down to it, but I just cared nothing for him. His constant determination to frame Han or ruin his already dismal reputation was just beyond irritating. He just made me want to shout The girl does not want you! My constant reaction to him was more or less just something likeSpeaking of annoying: Nightwalker. I never trusted this shady fucker. Playing Bird and treating her like trash, constantly trying to get in Raisa’s pants, kissing up to her dad every chance he got. Every time he was even mentioned was irritating. Though I admit, I did not peg him for the mystery wizard killer at all. It was another thing I maybe should have been able to predict but was just completely caught off guard by. And he killed Queen Marianna! Oh my god I literally gasped out loud! I thought it was Bayar!! I can’t believe he had the audacity to try to kill Raisa though. “Here’s what I think!” Raisa practically shouted, like she was speaking at temple. She layered her voice with as much scorn as she could muster. “My mother was unfaithful to my father, which was their business, not yours. And I had the temerity to say no to you.” Nightwalker was so self important and practically worshipped, no one even suspected him. Well, except Bird. I didn’t expect Raisa’s rescuer to be Bird at all. The poor girl was just used and talked down to the entire series. Her death was really unexpected and sad. She was honestly the last person I would have thought would die, but at least she took Nightwalker with her.“All I ever wanted was to be Demanai.”Rest in peace baby girl. Oppositely, a death I was on the edge of my seat for for all four books: Lord Bayar. Oh man, can I just say how much I love that he literally got eaten alive? If anyone’s actually reading this at this point you might say well he didn’t actually feel it. Still! Let me have my happiness. Damn but he deserved so much worse. Honestly the whole time I was just picturing him as Lucius Malfoy I can’t even pretend I wasn’t lol. Though Bayar was worse I’d say. I wish I could say I can’t believe he literally locked Han in a dungeon and tortured him, but yeah I totally can. Sayonara asshat. Ah Han my Slytherin af babe. No one can even argue with me at this point, I literally lost track of how many times some person or another referred to Han’s ambition. And he was so cunning, especially in this last book. It was literally unbelievable the lengths he went to for Raisa. He’s so conniving and clever and I just live for it. The constant manipulation was so impressive. The whole damn world out to get him and still comes out on top. He went through the ringer for it, though. Reading the torture chapters was really difficult. And it was both heartbreaking and beautiful that Alger would go through something like that again when that was how he literally died, just so that Han could have some relief. Their dynamic was gut wrenching. I loved what Han did for Alger at the end more than words, bringing Hanalea’s wolf form into Aediion to be able to see him. I admit I shed a few tears. Or I should say a few more tears, since I cried quite a bit in this novel. Mainly for Raisa. Raisa thinking that Han was dead was absolutely the worst part of this.  “Alister’s dead?” Lord Hakkam sputtered, as if offended by the inconvenience of it all. “Already?” Amon gripped Raisa’s shoulders, holding her upright so she wouldn’t fall.Raisa cries, I cry. That’s basically been a solid rule for the entire series. So when Raisa starts sobbing well, what can I say. Ugh. It was the worst. I loved every single Han and Raisa moment we got in this book, but the proposal was the cutest thing I can’t even say how cute. And their wedding!! That was all I really wanted right there. I love how everyone had no choice but to let it happen. I just love this ship so much I hate how underrated this series is I want to be able to discuss how much I adore these two in detail. I think this has probably been long enough, though it’s probably only about half of my overall thoughts for the series. It was just perfection.