"So many questions, so many stories that needed telling. A story of their own they needed to write. One with a happy ending."I finished this book about a week ago and I still don't know how to write coherent sentences about how much I loved this book and this series. When I finished I was honestly in tears of happiness. It was a perfect conclusion to an absolutely amazing series. I'm just so happy and content with where this series went. I honestly cannot recommend it enough. Let's just talk about the dance scene at the beginning of this book because DAMN I WAS DEAD. Raisa and Han are just the best representation of the demon king and the original grey wolf queen, Hanalea. Also I loved Han constantly playing the role of the demon king because he really is so much like him - not in a bad way don't worry. Basically all of these rumours came up around the demon king centuries ago and they're all pretty much bullshit and that's such a good representation of Han. He's underestimated and made into someone he's not.“Oh, I am getting married," Raisa said sleepily. "You promised me that if I agreed to marry you, that you would make it happen." She extended her hand, the one with the ring Han had given her, and waved it under his nose. "So. It's time to pay up.” I absolutely adored our 2 main characters in this book but I did still want a bit more from some of the side characters. I've said it before, but Han was a character that I didn't overly care about in The Demon King but I definitely grew to absolutely love him throughout this series. He's just a precious little cinnamon roll and I love him endlessly. Raisa was instantly my favourite character when I first picked up this series and my love for her has just grown. She reminds me of Cleo from the Falling Kingdoms series and I could instantly see her potential - she wasn't just a spoilt princess that everyone made her out to be. She has some serious guts and she makes an incredible Queen. Together this ship is just amazing. I love them together - although I wish there was more of them together. I would have liked to see more of Amon being happy. I mean I guess we don't really know if he is happy with his arranged marriage wife - I hope they are because he deserves the world. Honestly, I'm still shocked that he didn't die. I was pretty certain that he was going to die sometimes throughout this series but I'm pretty happy that he lived. Dancer gave me an absolute heart attack so many times in this book but thank fucking god he's all good because I can't cope with character deaths. I wanted to absolutely kill Gavan Bayar from page 1 (thank god he died) and I still feel incredibly sorry for Fiona. She had potential and I feel like something else could have been done for her character. Poor girl. But, I wanted more from Micah. He has so much potential as a character and I feel like he didn't do as much as I wanted him to. Hopefully in the spin off we see more of him because I need him to be helpful and not a piece of shit. I HAVE HOPE FOR YOU MICAH. YOU'RE JUST UNDERESTIMATED BUT I UNDERSTAND YOU. I'm so happy that Crow got his happy ending too and the way this book ended was so sweet and I'm feeling all the feels.“Crow walked toward her, arms outstretched like a man in a dream, which he was, in a way. Sometimes a dream is enough.”As always, a shit tonne of stuff happens in this book and I was honestly stressed for the entirely of this book. I just love this series ok.