It's been a long time since I've read something by Guy Gavriel Kay. His Fionavar Tapestry fantasy trilogy was one of the formative fantasy series of my youth, and aside from an attempt at Tigana and a vaguely remembered reading of A Song for Arbonne, I've not really gone back to his work. Fortunately, my wife's aunt inspired my return to Kay's work by sending The Lions of Al-Rassan our way. I was expecting something that would scratch an itch for epic fantasy, and though the book has very little to fit into that genre, I found an entirely different form of satisfaction. The Lions of Al-Rassan is a novel brimming with political intrigue, sorrow, poetry, war, love, and most surprisingly, some damned cool medieval medicine.In a fictionalized version of the Iberian Peninsula Kay has formed Al-Rassan, the former great empire of the Asharites, on the eve of great upheaval. Populating this corner of the world are three peoples united by religion: Asharites, Jaddites, and the Kindath. Though these seemed to me like analogues for Christianity, Islam, and Judaism, the religions are based on the solar objects to which the groups pay homage. Our three key leads, Jehane bet Ishak (a female Kindath physician), Rodrigo Belmonte (famed military commander of Valledo, a Jaddite), and Ammar ibn Khairan (an Asharite assassin, warrior, and advisor) are brought together through strange circumstance as the peninsula begins to undergo exceptional change. What impressed me about this book was the pace at which it changes. The book's opening chapter sees the ruling class of an entire city put to the sword, and The Lions of Al-Rassan rarely lets up from that aggressive narrative momentum. Thrones change hands, entire cities are taken in the matter of a few pages, and large combat is occasionally described only in its aftermath. Indeed, there's enough in these pages that a slower roll out over a duology or trilogy would not have been out of place. Though there's twists and turns here to rival cultural touchstone Game of Thrones, they occasionally fell flat for me when I got lost in the sauce of Kay's world. The cast in this book is immense, and I had to reference the principal character pages more often than I would in most novels. The interplay of the various religions, their beliefs, the characters' motivations, and occasionally the action are more than a bit of a challenge to follow. Though I loved Kay's poetic writing, I occasionally wondered if I was missing something because I forgot a development a chapter ago or if Kay was just doing his thing.This ends up working for and against the novel in a lot of respects. There are two scenes towards the end of the novel in which fairly major characters are killed. I liked the way that Kay described the chaos of battle, or even single combat, but scratched my head at the long and slow reveal of who had died. In the earlier instance, it feels like a needless contrivance as the potential victim switches between several candidates over 10 pages, when a more straightforward reveal would have been more impactful. By contrast, the way in which he describes the final battle, and obfuscates the identity of the fallen character works exceptionally well and helps to emphasize the beauty, futility, and heartache incurred by that clashing of swords.Speaking of the final battle, the closing scene is so beautifully rendered on the page that it seemed cinematic. More to the point, I think this would be a great candidate for adaptation to screen (miniseries would be my choice). There's loads of romance, mayhem, and enough political intrigue to satisfy fans of an aforementioned fantasy series whose adapted ending left quite a lot to be desired. By contrast, The Lions of Al-Rassan ties its threads up in a thematically and narratively satisfying way. I'm really glad to have been reintroduced to Kay's work, and though the book occasionally becomes difficult to follow, or slows down more than I would have liked, the destination is well worth the complex journey. The characters are fantastic, there's tons of sexy scenes interspersed with musings about the religious use of the political machine, scheming, bloodshed, and some pretty accurate medicine (although, these people were definitely dying of sepsis). This is not a book that's going to be for everyone, and I'd hesitate to recommend it to fantasy fans. If it's dragons, spells, supernatural light shows, and magical items that you're after, you're better served elsewhere. However, I think fans of historical fiction and those who dug the costumes and courtroom debates of GoT more than the dragons will find something to love in this novel.