Y'all rating this book higher than 3 stars are such liars. I cannot trust any book hyped on Instagram or Tiktok ever again. Let me just start by saying that I read A Touch of Darkness (because how can you resist that beautiful cover?) and found the book to be absolute shit. I hated it so much, I swore I'd never read anything from this author again. Months later and this book circulates around Instagram with WILD hype. The blurb is *chef's kiss*. Like I legit shook from excitement when I read the summary and when the book was finally released. But it took me almost one week to finish this. Be warned that this will be a long, all-over-the-place review with a lot of spoilers, so watch out. THE GOOD!~ ConceptHonestly if it wasn't for the blurb, I would not have touched another work from SSC. "Their union is his revenge" immediately gave me enemies-to-lovers vibes, which this book was apparently about, so that's a tick. Vampires? TICK. An assassination attempt? TICK! ~ WritingI have to say, after reading ATOD from the 3rd person perspective and this book from the 1st person, I think SSC does much better writing in 1st person. While this is not something that will matter to some people, it made a big difference to me because this book is such an improvement from ATOD. Some of the sentences in this book really wowed me. Like "I met him beneath jasmine and kissed him under stars, and we made love in the dark, and that love ended in fire and damned the world" just made me speechless because I think this might be the best sentence in the whole book for me. THE BAD...~ CharactersRight off the bat from chapter 1 I hated ISOLDE so much. I didn't like her and I had no respect or any connection to her. She was supposed to be this strong warrior princess but instead she was just this horny, man-hating, jealous, spoiled bitch who gave major i'M nOt LiKe OtHeR gIrLs vibes and looked down her nose at every female character that didn't side with her. Literally 2 minutes after meeting the male lead and she's so horny she can't think. And it became even worse when in chapter 2 as she was just thinking "between my thighs" and "my breasts" and then she's touching her "preening" clit? 2 MINUTES! WOMAN! She made it sound like they'd had a full on proper conversation before her vagina took the wheel. The whole book, she was just SO horny. Every. Single. Chapter. I just cannot describe or explain how she made me feel with the way she was always singing praises about her husband's body or constantly touching herself when he wasn't there. I am not against sexual characters, but the way she was written is just... no words man. I can't even think. In one chapter she walks into the king's council room and she's immediately disgusted because they're all men. Okay??? Also the way she thought of Killian just because he was a "mediocre lover"? Yes, he was really annoying, but the way she thought about him was just really shitty. Speaking of shitty, her treatment of women who were wither a threat to her or she didn't like. I HATE HATE HATE this sort of thing. The first time she confronted Safira was okay, but still the things she thought and said just made me hate her more. And then there are more women in the book who she treats horribly, and it's "justified" because they disrespect her or want to make her jealous or "mock" her. And the way she threw "I am your queen" at everyone who mildly disagreed with her. At some point I was going to lose my jams if she said it one more time! I know she's a queen, but that doesn't mean she should treat everyone like they're below her, especially women because her treatment of the men was a little better. That was shit. How am I ever supposed to connect with her like this? I could write essays about my hatred for her but I'll stop here. In conclusion: she's a bitch, not a badass. ADRIAN reminded me so much of Hades from ATOD. I didn't like him either. When he asks for Isolde's hand and she refuses, and then he threatens to kill her people...???? I'm supposed to swoon? AND MY SWEET? 🤮 SSC character's, to me, seem to lack any depth or substance or actual personality to make them stand out and make me connect with them. I couldn't give one shit about anyone in this book. Two books I've read from her, and I HATED her female characters and couldn't give a damn about the males. Who am I supposed to root for? ~ WritingWas all over the place. I know I gave it some praise, but that was some. Sometimes things were said out of nowhere that I had to go back and read not just one paragraph but sometimes a whole page to see what I missed. Other times the dialogue just did not flow or really make sense or feel natural. The flashbacks were written poorly. Again, I had to go back and reread to see if she was dreaming, actually experiencing this, or just having a flashback. Speaking of rereading, I did that the most with the "spicy" scenes. One paragraph she's crying and the next she's up against the wall getting railed. One paragraph she's sleeping and then she's touching herself with him watching. Sometimes I genuinely could not figure out if he was fingering her or fucking her, or if he came at all. The spicy scenes happened so quickly that I couldn't understand who finished when or what position they were using or what they hell they were doing. There was no tension. No teasing. No build up or excitement or anything. People praise SSC for the spice and it just makes me think some of y'all have never read actual spice in your lives if you call this spicy. ALSO, THE AMOUNT OF SAID THIS AUTHOR USES! It's fine to use said, but to use it more than 5 times in one goddamn page on my phone is just bad. Here's an actual example from the book: "Because I danced with Lothian," I said. "When I was supposed to dance with you". "Hmm," he said, understanding. "You are lucky I like him." "I promised to protect his balls," I said. "Suddenly, I like him less," Adrian said. "I am angry with you," I said. Adrian raised a brow. "As if I could not guess by your actions. Safira?" "You said you would cease feeding from her." "I have," he said. Was this honestly edited? Also, this book either dragged or skipped things through. The pace was all over the damn place. 20 chapters were not enough because it felt like the book was rushed. Not much was revealed or explained, and even then things were glossed over. Final chapter was absolute shit. I read the last line and went "that's it? Are you serious?" Because nothing happened. This book should have been longer, should have showed more of what happens at the red palace other than her wearing lavish dresses that enhance her big breasts and walking around the garden or fucking Adrian. 2 weeks is not enough to make me believe Isolde has changed or now loves Adrian. Everything felt and sounded forced. Honestly, why was this executed so bad? ~ ConceptI was not given what I was promised. This was insta-lust and fast. No slow-burn or tension or actual hate from any side. Enemies-to-lovers? How? He was in love from ch1 and she was horny for him. Even her hatred didn't last long. Vampire culture? Hardly much was explored and not enough bloodsucking happening. The spice everyone praised? Where? The assassination attempt? PLEASE WHAT WAS THAT! "His union was his revenge" AGAINST WHO?! Because the whole thing made it sound like he was getting revenge against her people or something, but god this disappointed me so bad, it hurt. It was just not what the blurb promised. Also I just want to add that anyone who read From Blood and Ash will see a lot of similarities here. A lot. Isolde is a "thick" girl who cannot fit to slim standards, has been trained to fight and mostly uses knives and daggers. Okay, that's fine, though she sounds like Poppy. The starless forest sounded way too similar to that forest in FBAA. The whole thing with the goddesses was also very similar. Not to mention the cover, which many have pointed out. All in all, this kind of reads like a fanfic of FBAA? I swear I was 50% confused while reading this book. I think that's why it took me a week to read it- because I had to reread a lot, and because some days I put the book down and couldn't be bothered reading it. Overall, it was an improvement from ATOD, and I did enjoy some parts of it. But will I read the next book? No. Will I read anything from this author again? Also no. This book did not deliver ANYTHING it promised, and it was not entirely original. 2 stars because I enjoyed some parts of this book and the blurb concept. Thank you for reading my report.