"History is just a perspective. It changes depending on your side"Considering that I'm not a big fan of the author's previous works, I really delve into this with zero expectation. A surprise it was when I found myself feeling okay as I read further, though a few things still irked me. But let me be fair in my review by starting with what I enjoy and like first. If I were to compare it to her Hades & Persephone books, King of Battle and Blood was written competently. I liked that it was such a fast-paced and easy reading. Clair came out with a political conflict in the worldbuilding which made it all enthralling. Bonus point — because as far as I am not concerned, there were no typing/spelling/grammar errors like how it used to be so apparent in her previous books. I'm not a grammar nazi, I just expected better from an author who is publishing their books that I paid for it. Everything is finally falling into place. Then, we have all these mysterious creeps surrounding the book with the crimson mist to the orange-haired woman on the mirror; which I liked how it seeks adventure and answers as we go on despite the book being a paranormal romance. Although, it was a bit dismay at how the truth is not in the balance so you don't have to spark your inner Sherlock to spot the elephant in the room. All the same, I enjoyed it still because I am an absolute rampage for reincarnation trope. There's just something melancholic and beautiful about being separated from your true loves and reunited lifetime after lifetime; because who doesn't love pain. Well, at least that was the expectation right? However, I hardly feel that sense of connection between Adrian and Isolde since they were not given the delicate build-up for their romance. And it does not help that Isolde is feeling horny all the freaking time and everything was just so rushed and insta-lust. Wait, did I say I set off with zero expectation? Well, I take that back. I very much expected the vampire porn this book has to deliver (why else do you think I'm reading this?) but if that's really the case, then everyone can just watch one on pornhub or something. But we still opt for those inks between pages because we need the plot, the emotional development as well as character growth! But Adrian and Isolde are not even working for their love which is quite vexing. Where's the angst that the audience asked for?Another thing that got me popping my vein is this branding that Clair had for coming up with the most condescending, crude heroines. EVERY. SINGLE. TIME. Do you hate women so bad as to pit me against all these female characters ceaselessly? I hate to give all the encomium to a man that hardly exists in the real world today so WHY? No, cause I get the hidden message forth; women empowerment, strength, knowledge versus ignorance, war, and sacrifice, yada yada. But despite that, Isolde is one overbearing, pretentious, and annoying heroine instead; it's hard to empathize with her. I'll cut the slack if this is some YAs but that's barely the case. Isolde is a 26 years old grown-up who is set to be a queen mind you — but acted merely off her assumptions and emotions. Incidentally, she's also that person who likes to speak when needn't ask to or do so for the sake of hurting the other party. Like, place a bet with me how long her kingdom would last this way. And I know I am not nitpicking, Adrian pointed it out and Isolde realized it. "You make many presumptions, wife" — no shit, Sherlock. "Fine" I said feeling silly""I had been insensitive" — [also me: pretended to be shocked]. Please don't talk about character development because it's hardly so till the end and I am tired of excusing asshole people by discarding it as "their personality and that people are different." Because oh yeah? That still doesn't give you the license to be rude. This book hinted a bit at the feminist message but Isolde has been tearing other women down and being such a bully instead of doing the opposite. And that's so much on creating a "badass heroine" (please don't). I get if we were talking about antagonists, I hate Killian and Nadia but who cares about them. If they're the villain the author made to be, let them be. But a heroine who's set to reign? Spare me from being a citizen. Anyhow, two things I wanted to point out though it's neither on my good nor bad side is — i) the representation in this book. We have POCs and queer characters which I extol for the diversity. But then, I can't help to feel that it's didactic. Meh, not a big deal though. Then — ii) this book suffered from having a massive cast, I was a little jumbled on trying to remember who’s who. Especially all these lords in the council. Best bet, I'll have no memory of these characters' existence in the next book. You can serve me a crappy plot, but characters who aren't flattering can be a major undoing. I very much bargain for a rage; coming from this author which is why it isn't as bad compared to if this was your first time with Clair's work. I can see why it's not working out for some readers. It worked well for the physical aspect but failed to persuade me of the deeper connection. Fix Isolde's attitude, and this book may be in the cards for me. Anyways, expecting better things in the second one (only doing this for Adrian).