One of my all-time favorite series and a "must buy" for me. Delicious fun with a strong warrior-type heroine. The imagined world that fluxes between magic and technology is truly unique. Kate investigates the mystery of a tall dark stranger in a cloak who seems to be able to cause terror in were-beasts as well as unusual contagion. Of course, this requires her to interact with the King of Beasts after he had not shown up for their special dinner. The mystery ends up giving us a little more insight into Kate's heritage. I admit confusion over a minor point or two,  such as why Erra can cause contagion without using her piloted mage,  but overall a very well written urban fantasy. A great deal of action, but not so much that it sacrifices atmosphere and setting. The world building gives a sense of the long time a horse ride takes between destinations, for instance, or the quiet beauty in a Jewish temple. I also thought the long-awaited sex scene between Kate and Curran started well, but suffered from a dose of 'urban romance syndrome,' i.e. focus on repeated intercourse over very short periods of time as a quality indicator. However, that's a small point and thankfully, sex scenes between the two do not continue to play a prominent role in the storyline.  Extra bonus for the series for having a strong heroine who does not suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome. Kate's complex of protective solitude versus risking the people she loves is understandable and not overly angsty.re-read 2/2023 I still like it, and it still holds up as a story. Definitely one of the earlier ones in the series, in the sense that Andrews are still holding on to the idea of the characterization of Kate as a wise-cracking blade/investigator for hire. The story feels very consistent throughout, with a very even narrative tone. I'd do better on a review, but frankly, my vacation ends tomorrow, so there's a lot to be done. For instance, I have to go see if I need to re-read Kate Daniels #6 now (I've been working backwards).