We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we’re given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable.And there is a fire catching among us.This was SO MUCH MORE than I expected.  Girls of Paper and Fire is a lush fantasy story that goes to some extremely dark places. The light amid this darkness is the central f/f romance that evolves gradually and naturally, never overtaking the political machinations and drama. Ngan has done a number of exciting things here. Her fantasy world is heavily-inspired by her Malaysian upbringing, and the gorgeous descriptions really bring the setting to life:It stuns me how vast the palace is. Not just a palace really, but a city—a labyrinth of streets, courtyards, and gardens, like the veins and arteries flowing through a giant creature with the King nestled at its core, its own living, beating heart.There's echoes of  The Belles in here, though I'd argue that this is a much nastier read. In this book, girls from the Paper caste (the lowest caste and fully-human) are stolen away by the royal soldiers to become the King's consorts. They are trained in obedience and seduction, waiting every day to be called to his majesty's rooms. Lei, with her strange golden eyes, is now one of these girls.Ngan does a great job of creating the dynamics of friendship and jealousy between the girls. They are all fascinating, diverse and very different in both background and attitude to their circumstances. Some of the girls are eager to please the King; others would do anything not to be there. Aoki is an especially interesting character and some moments with her broke my heart. Even the typical "mean girl" is developed into something more over the course of the story.There's also some really great sex-positivity and a frank portrayal of desire and passion. In a situation where the girls' consent has never been sought, consensual unions are celebrated. The main one being the central romance between Lei and Wren, which even a cold-hearted cynic like me was able to fall in love with.And, of course, behind it all a bigger political story is taking place. Lei and the other Paper girls get dragged into a dangerous plot that puts many lives at risk, even the lives of Lei's family. It all arrives at a dramatic, pulse-pounding climax and ends with the promise of more horrors to come. I can't wait!Content warning for rape and multiple attempted rapes (the former happens off-page but the before and after is very disturbing), one instance of animal cruelty (non-graphic) and slavery, including sexual slavery.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube