We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we're given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable.And there is a fire catching among us. Well, I'd be more than happy to light this protagonist's flimsy, highly flammable, paper-y ass on fire. (Rant alert. But after putting myself through the agony of reading and re-reading this, I am feeling decidedly grouchy.) Girls of Paper and Fire was wholly, solidly mired in mediocrity and worse. I was re-reading it, and you know what? The writing was not good. It was amateurish, painfully uninspired and at times, off-putting. Weirdly stilted dialogue, a nauseating amount of telling, and all those absurdly dressed-up, subtle-am-I-not descriptions: "twin currents of anger and fear twine through my voice, and they seem so much like the same thing now—hot, bright, defiant", "leaving only the burn of anger, hatred, darkest, deepest pain". The feelings are spelled out so very plainly, so very specifically on paper that all that's left to do, surely, is put them in spaced-out all-caps. I mean. What about postures, positions and poses? What about the tone and atmosphere? Writing "anger"—and all sorts of useless, fanciful fluff around it as an afterthought—does not create anger in the reader nor the writing.On top of that, the writing was unapologetically repetitious. All that humdrum rehashing of the same stupid, tired descriptors! All that 'purring' and 'growling', argh! I get that this is furbait I signed up for, but it becomes utterly, unabashedly infuriating to read after the thirtieth time. And the plot. Wait, what plot? Almost nothing happened, aside from those, you know, scenes of hot, breathy sweet nothings and barely, barely toe-warming passion. The rare smatterings of politics and plots are all lost in the same ol' unremitting stream of dramatically petty angst and you-lied-to-me-Wren. I was plodding through pages of pointless, nonsensical crap, and getting no more than pitiful scraps of plot progression for it. And no lie, what little did happen was all for nothing (ah, plot device at its finest!). But I'd rather good characters than a good plot, so… let's talk about how the characters were literal stale, flaccid doughsticks. There was no depth to them, nope, nada. On top of that, the antagonist's personality was scripted to the point of cartoonish, nonsensically comical playacting. And props to him 'cause he made me laugh, and that has to count for something, at least. But the protagonist, holy rice. Was she stubbornly obtuse and insanely Wren-obsessed. Because of her my insides shriveled up, resignedly and deliberately, bit by bit as I read, until there was nothing but blissful oblivion between me and the first-person narrative. And the depiction of relationship abuse in the novel irritated me, because I felt as if it more or less devalued the courage of endurance and personal sacrifice. Lei was praised for her 'courage' because she defied orders, refusing to be raped (and putting her father's life in danger, the idiot), but what about those who didn't, couldn't, do the same? Victims don't choose to become trapped in an abusive relationship, nor is stopping the abuse a matter of them choosing to oppose it. And you know what? There is strength in enduring—in enduring because there is no other choice. And while Lei was courageous (read: idiotic) for resisting and acting as she did, the others were no less courageous for not doing the same. 1.0/5