she was a pistol wrapped in silk. she was a blade disguised as a girlalright alright alright listen up, listen here. This book is a whole lotta fun and I thoroughly enjoyed it! In fact I'm eagerly awaiting the official release so I can read a completed physical edition. WHAT IS ACE OF SHADES?🃏 a dark, complex, fantasy world where gangs run the streets and lure unsuspecting visitors into their gambling parlours, where crime rules and turf wars brew and at the heart of it all, a deadly history no one wants to talk about🃏 a girl called Enne, who's looking for her mother in the City of Sin, and gets a lot more then she bargained for🃏 a black, bisexual boy called Levi, a card dealing extraordinaire, who also keeps a closet full of lost things left behind after nights with strangers because he's just that SUAVE🃏 a deadly game that threatens to take our heroes lives, unless they can do the impossible and win🃏 mysteries, tricks and twists abound!🃏 a book that definitively did NOT rip off soc, 1: because Amanda Foody has been writing this for YEARS and 2: because it's literally not anything like soc, so don't listen to those peoplethis book is a RIDE and I loved it I admit at first it can be kinda hard to get into. There's a lot of information thrown at you, but there's not much happening. But when this book gets into it's paces it FLIES by. I got so wrapped up in the mystery and intrigue of the plot. I really like that Amanda Foody gives you just enough to keep you interested but not enough to make this predictable. The cast of characters are colourful and fun. Both hero and villain wise. Our heroes are easy to get behind, with realistic motivations, that makes you root for them even when they're doing bad. I think the villains are also done so well here. They've also given some depth but you totally loathe them. I also like that there is some interesting, not so well explored characters who will be explored more in the sequels. I'm super interested in seeing how these characters are used in the upcoming books. Above all, Amanda Foody NAILED atmosphere. The City of Sin has such a tangible presence because Amanda Foody uses such detailed and interesting description to bring her setting to life. This made the entire setting so vivid in my mind and for me, world building is actually kind of a big deal. The division of the city amongst the gangs, and how the politics between each division affected the city and characters was really interesting too and I appreciated how well thought out and detailed it was.I also APPRECIATED that damn romance. Slow burn and angsty as fuck !! I LOVE that. “People do not play this game to win, my dear. They play this game not to lose.”My favourite part was the end of the book (not like, that it was ending. I mean the final chapters) they were SO GOOD AND EXCITING. But I can't say much about them without spoiling you all! :( SO YOU'LL HAVE TO READ THIS AND DISCOVER WHAT I MEAN FOR YOURSELF. I genuinely really liked this and I can't wait for the sequel! This had so many things I love in YA fantasy: An interesting world, a good plot twist, romantic tension and slow burn and gritty, morally grey characters.