Do not believe their smiles. Do not stray into their lairs. Or you may never come out again.3.75 stars. if you just want to know if this book is like six of crows, click here.This is one of those books which I got really, really excited for, even when it wasn't released yet. Normally, I don't let a book’s popularity affect my reading -- or if it does, it's in a positive way, like how I anticipated The Cruel Prince forever and, truthfully, probably loved it just a little more because of the hype. this book has been insanely hyped, and why not? look how gorgeous the cover is; look at the intriguing blurb. the pitch promises "house of the rising sun meets Six of Crows". and i love six of crows to death. i think this would have been way better if it wasn't so hyped, but i already discussed how this negatively affected my reading experience in my blog post so i won't be talking about that here. no, here, i'm going to totally ignore the comparison and rate it by its own merits, which is only fair.before we get into the positives and negatives, let's take a quick peep at our main characters:enne saltaShe rooted around her pocket, pulling out a tube of lipstick, the gun and the silk mask. All the girlie necessities, apparently.enne annoyed me right off the bat, but then i grew to love her more and more, since her character does develop a lot over the course of the book ― but more on that later. she starts off weak and simpering, but turns into basically a badass, even if the writing is a little dramatic about it sometimes. over the course of ten days, she went from hourly breakdowns to being "a pistol in the form of a girl".enne as kermit:levi glaisyeri really love what this character represents. levi is a black bisexual boy (and not just oh-yeah-by-the-way-i'm-maybe-possibly-attracted-to-boys-sometimes, there's canon gayness on the page) and the iron lord of new reynes. he's very unapologetically soft and emotional, while also grappling with some morally difficult decisions and occasionally displaying violent behaviour. levi as kermit:these characters have some really strong points: enne is a girl, and she is allowed to want things, and allowed to be independent. levi is a boy, and he's allowed to feel things, and allowed to cry and display hurt.onwards!the positives:— ▸ the worldbuilding is really good in places. amanda foody has developed a lot of things that you don't see in other fantasy YA novels: a really ingenious currency and magic system, a world history, political groups, designer brands, even the names of streets. — ▸ there was a lot of discussion of relevant topics. the male lead is black and bi (i already said), there's a sprinkle of feminism, and sexuality isn't degraded or shoved down at all. "I am not scary," Enne grumbled. "I'm elegant. And charming.""You can be all three," he ceded, and Enne decided that was satisfactory.— ▸ the side characters were interesting. by the end of the book, i felt that i knew the four main characters -- enne, levi, jac and lola -- well enough. they're all given their own quirks and traits that help make them that little bit more realistic.— ▸ the plot was pretty cool. while there are some aspects that are a little too predictable for my tastes, you always wanted to know what would happen next and where enne and her misfit friends would land into trouble next. there are a lot of pieces in motion, and it's very satisfying to watch them all come together over the course of the novel.— ▸ the countdown layout of the book is really intriguing; it starts at day one and finishes on day ten. — ▸ the writing was easy to read, and occasionally there was a really good phrase in there.The City of Sin is painted white so that the filth can stain.— ▸ the romance moved nice and slowly, and enne was never dependent on levi. he always respected her right to say no.— ▸ the plot twist at the end was really great, and it was an epilogue that makes me really wish book 2 wasn't so far away. the negatives :(— ▸everything moves wayyyy too fast to be realistic. i don't mean the pacing -- that was actually quite slow, in places, and dragged a bit. what i mean is that we're supposed to realistically believe that enne salta, a ballerina from finishing school, who cries at the merest hint of danger, transforms into a bloodthirsty, remorseless killer in nine and a half days. less, if you count all the time that she was asleep. what i mean is that on her sixth/seventh day of being in the city, enne is told this:"Now I think the city could be yours to claim."— ▸ aside from enne, none of the other characters saw any good development. i'm not counting a crush. that's not character development. — ▸ suspension of disbelief was hard to maintain throughout a lot of this. levi hardly seems capable of ruling the streets of new reynes, but we're just expected to go with it. — ▸ i listed the worldbuilding as one of the positives, but unfortunately it's a double-edged sword. it was introduced with painful, awkward info-dumps, and we know very little of the world outside new reynes. the only two places i can remember are a) the place where enne is from, bellamy and b) the place where enne goes. i had to slow down, catch my breath and backtrack to even try and understand where the mizers/monarchists thing was going (and with all the emphasis put on it, i should have seen what was coming, honestly.)— ▸ INSTALOVE. welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to Keeping Up with Levi Glaisyer. on today's episode, we're going to hear his thoughts on the girl he's known for six mucking days:"And he would tell her that, even after losing everything he'd ever wanted, he still desperately wanted her.”— ▸ oh yeah, i almost forgot. the maturity level of this book didn't know quite what to do with itself. all the swear words have been replaced with childish-sounding versions -- "mucking" or "shatz" -- but there's also talk of prostitutes, pedophilia, and lotsa sexual stuff. "Don't. Mucking. Move."this was supposed to be a fairly intense scene, but no longer, because i couldn't help but laugh at the ridiculous fake-swears. — ▸ the climax wasn’t as great as it could have been. there's no other way to put it. the buildup was actually really good, and i was thrilled to see where we went next -- and the big moment was essentially a bunch of people, sitting around a table... playing cards.— ▸  a couple of the character's choices frustrated me. picture this: you're a YA main character, and you're in grave danger. you're searching desperately for a weapon, but can't find one. however, there is a pretty dress in the corner. should you play dress up? guess what enne did?guess. GUESS. overall, i didn't mean for this review to end on such a negative note, because i genuinely did enjoy this book and i'm excited for what's coming next. it's definitely not without its flaws, though, and i'm intrigued to see how amanda foody carries on this series.▌Instagram ▌Tumblr ▌New Blog ▌