The best multiperspective series I've ever read. I write this review after reading all the books (no spoilers) and I wholeheartedly, extremely joyously feel that this was the ideal series it could be. There are many series out there like this that have a wonderfully enticing first book where you fall in love with the protagonists of the first book and gradually feel more detached from the protagonists of the sequels, this book is unlike any of its kind, that I’ve read so far. Rather than trying to show us the entirety of the world and the potential of the world in the first book in a show of extravagance the author’s skill is highlighted in her choice to hold back when she does. The choice of switching from perspective to perspective in each book is the absolute perfect way to tell the stories Melissa Marr does leading to the perfect culmination of the world and the characters. I would normally give you an overview of the first book and hint at the rest at this point but It’s really not necessary and kind of useless for this series because it wouldn’t possibly give you an accurate estimate of the majesty of this world and the characters in it. Each book takes the world-building and the storyline to the next level and the characters grow so naturally through the series that you’re never hit with the feeling that suddenly you feel like you’re reading about a different person or that the author just created more plotlines to write another book. Each story flows seamlessly into the next and you find yourself falling in love with each and every character and I mean it.Don’t let past experiences with paranormal series affect your decision to read this one, I cannot stress enough that these books are so very unique you will not ever find yourself in the position where you feel like you’re reading an over-written cliched storyline. There are moments while reading other paranormal books, where I slip out of that reading trance and feel like I would’ve done something differently about various aspects of the story but there was not one moment where I felt like was back-seat writing in my head, I was always the reader waiting to see what the author would bestow us with next. The world-building was *chef’s kiss* so mesmerising. The pace at which the world unveils in front of our eyes is perfect for the series there is never a moment where you feel like a bunch of information came at you out of the blue to continue the story or to start a new plotline. One of the things I respect the most is that we as the reader see that realistic lag of information between characters in different parts of the world, we see characters being held back by restrictions that others have overcome with newer information that couldn’t have possibly reached the former. We see the effect of being an amateur on the characters while trying to do the right thing and we see that change with the experience they gain. We see real conflict within relationships, not that childish push and pull you see so much of, where the characters’ insecurities keep them in a limbo, where you know they are going to end up together and it’s just being dragged out.When you feel like reading about faeries turn to this book and rest assured that you will only fall in love with the series more as you go on. Don’t stop at the first book to prevent being disappointed by the next ones. Just read it.