I’m not really into retellings. I’m not. I’d rather an author tell me an original tale spun from their imagination. Sometimes I feel retellings are cheating.However, I quite enjoyed Cinderby Marissa Meyer earlier this year, so I thought I’d give Entwined a shot. It has one of those generic white-girl in a pretty dress YA covers, which I must confess I do think are really gorgeous. However in this instance I'm not convinced this is the best cover for this book. I don't feel it really represents the book, explains what the book is about nor even represents any of the scenes. I would even go so far as to say that this cover put me off reading this book sooner because of its generic-ness. I was terribly excited about this book only a few pages in, but this cover did not elicit the excitement I should have felt.Once I opened the book, I was blown away. Just blown away. I did not expect this calibre, wit, and execution. The characters were simply gorgeous. The writing was incredible. And the humour! I have never laughed out loud so many damn times in a novel that wasn’t 1) a comedy or 2) written by a comedian. It’s just… the humour! The fluff! The witty comebacks and fantastic situations!It was just amazing.I have a firm idea how Dixon managed to write twelve sisters so masterfully. Apparently she has a lot of siblings herself. Although Azalea was our main character, I fell in love with Bramble (just as prickly and defensive as her name) and adorable little Ivy. In fact, my heart leapt whenever Ivy appeared in the pages, and I almost cried when she took the food from the dancers, got spooked, and cried to ‘Lea’ for help. I actually re-read that part just for the sheer enjoyment of it. I just adored the greedy little mite. I want one!And yes, some of the sisters are not as well developed as the others. Some of them you see so little of that they blend with one another (Hollyhock, for one. She tended to fade into the background). But all of them, from mothering, leadership-material future queen Azalea all the way down to tiny little Lily, stole my heart. I’m not a mother yet, but it made me want my own little army of dancing princesses. (Don’t tell my fiancé.)And because this is my review and I can write whatever the damn hell I want, I’m goign to give a brief rundown of the princesses. I'll spoil tag it so those of you who haven't read this can discover the princesses on your own.Azalea: the forthmentioned leader. Caring and protective, and very, very brave.Bramble: as prickly as her name. Defensive and boisterous, with a mouth to match any wit. One of my favourites, it was always a pleasure to watch her on the page. She was possibly the most witty.Clover: the luckiest of the sisters, for she is blessed with the most beauty and blossoms into a woman during the book. Soft-spoken and with a stutter, she eventually overcomes this and turns into a woman who knows what she wants and how to get it.Delphinium: Kind of bossy and a bit of a know it all, but still loyal to her sisters. Also a drama queen, and pretty damned funny as well. She and Bramble bounced off each other really well!Eve: Wears glasses and was caught reading once or twice, but is one of the ones who blended, along with Hollyhock.Flora andGoldenrod: twins. Closer than your average sisters. Goldenrod tends to be quieter than Flora, but they share a special bond.Hollyhock: From memory, kind of bland. A blending sister. Not quite sure what makes her stand out.Ivy: My favourite. Five year old Ivy was a greedy girl who loved to eat: however, this was encouraged by the other sisters as they often gave her their uneaten meals. Ivy's weakness was the cause of a few ratehr awesome situations.Jessamine: Delicate and vulnerable, she was also a surprise contender in the bravery stakes considering she’s only four years old!Kale: Too young to really have much character, Kale tended to be the whinging, crying child when one of the sisters needed to wail. I also get the feeling she was kind of favoured by the king, which is weird, because he has so many daughters to choose from. He picked her from the bunch a few times.Lily: the baby. Adorable. So much squee.On top of the twelve dancing princesses, there were also several love interests, an entire household to contend with, and a villain who, to begin with, I was enamoured with. Each of these characters were lovingly developed and had their own quirks and speech patterns. If there were no tags, you could easily decipher who was speaking.Azalea was a great heroine to read about. I don’t normally enjoy third person perspective as much as first person because I feel that we don’t get inside the character’s head and really feel their story the way we can with first person perspective. I am also wary that lesser writers tend to headhop without even realising it. It’s one of those little things that annoys me. I also feel, a lot of the time, that if you’re not going to change perspective in third person PV, you may as well write it from first person POV.HOWEVER.In this book, third person perspective worked really well. There was no headhopping or changing POV. It was firmly Azalea’s story. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Azalea was brave, caring, and loved her sisters. She would bully them to make sure they were safe. It was difficult to juggle eleven sisters, but Azalea managed it. She also managed to grow from the princess who had just lost her mother into the future leader of her tiny, impoverished nation. I didn’t even mind that she fainted a bit!I liked the fact that the royal family wasn’t rich. The king hasn’t raised taxes in 200 years, which I think was awesome. And the king was another character that developed really well. You understand, even if the princesses don't, why he is so stern and strong. The princesses, although royal, slept under mended bedspreads and wore shabby, repaired dresses. It made sense for their famous dancing slippers to fall apart.Speaking of which, I loved all the dancing terminology. I also feel that Dixon really managed to get inside the head of a dancer and convey how it feels to dance. Personally? I don’t dance. I don’t enjoy it and I’m no good at it. But I loved reading about it.I also want to talk about pacing. I didn’t have a problem with it. The inciting incident doesn’t happen for a LONG time – BUT. BUT BUT BUT. There is still a LOT of interesting things that happen BEFORE that, things that are valuable to the plot and drive it forward. I did however feel that the end of the novel could have been a little bit closer to the climax. That’s a matter of personal taste. I know that to wrap up everything in a stand-alone novel as good as this takes time, so I was happy to read on. However, the anti-climax stood true to its name.Keeper was awesome. He was totally seductive. In the beginning he was everything I wanted for Azalea. Then, as the story unravelled, I realised what Keeper was. He was manipulative in the worst kind of way – when you don’t know you’re being manipulated. I even liked his description – I like guys with ponytails! Although I never really wanted Azalea to get romantic with him, I saw the appeal.Another character I want to mention is Lord Teddie, because he was just so damn funny. I loved reading about him and his interactions with the many girls around him, demanding his attention.I kept imagining this as a movie and trying to cast the twelve princesses. I failed because I don’t know anyone of the appropriate ages. The writing was so cinematic that I often felt like I was reading a grown-up slightly gothic Disney princess film. And guys? I FREAKING LOVE DISNEY PRINCESS FILMS.I also love the title of the novel. Entwined didn’t mean anything to me at first. Then I read the background story, and fell in love with it. It’s everything the novel is. It’s everything the central plot of the novel is.I borrowed this from my library, but I will be adding a hardcover version to my personal library. I just want to hug this book to me. One of my all-time favourites.