Eathesbury is a small, poor kingdom, whose royal family pour their meager funds into keeping up appearances. The eleven princesses—ranging from sixteen-year-old heir to the throne Azalea to two-year-old Kale—make do with drafty bedchambers and hand-me-down clothes. But thanks to their dance-obsessed mother, they know every possible way to twirl across a ballroom floor. The King is preoccupied with war, trade, and other royal business (R.B., as the girls call it) at the expense of his daughters, not even the one who will inherit his crown. Not one of the princesses, not even the little ones, call him Papa. The warm and gracious Queen, on the other hand, is always there for the sisters, and they adore her.But alas, Mother succumbs to one of those nameless book diseases, leaving behind a twelfth princess for the other girls to look after. Her last act before her death was to secure a promise from Azalea, that the Princess Royale would keep her younger sisters out of danger. The King marches off to war with a nearby kingdom before his wife is cold in her grave. He has forbidden all forms of merriment during the mourning period, but his daughters know their mother would want them to dance in her memory. They’ll get in trouble if they’re caught dancing on the palace grounds……but the pavilion at the heart of the magical garden in the basement surely doesn’t count. All the girls want to dance and laugh again, but the older ones are also drawn to the guardian of that enchanted place—a graceful, black-haired youth, who has no name except the title Keeper. What exactly does he keep? Why does he keep it? Can the sisters trust him?The answers are decidedly unpleasant. Content AdvisoryViolence: A man is fatally shot and bleeds heavily. People get their hands broken; reference to a historical figure getting hers chopped off. People are dragged over floors or struck across the face. More under Nightmare Fuel.Sex: Keeper acts increasingly creepy with Azalea. On one occasion he kisses her while she’s struggling to break free of him.Language: If you’re Meg March, this book is full of bad words, including “Blast!” and “Great Scot!” If you’re anyone else, there’s nothing to worry about. Substance Abuse: Nothing.Nightmare Fuel: The High King not only murdered a number of people, he used magic to trap their souls within his palace, crushed between panes of cold mirror-glass or confined to his dancing lawn with their eyes and/or mouths sewn shut.Keeper can take on any shape he likes, and once tries to be kind of seductive with Azalea while wearing her mother’s likeness. Ew. Another time he transforms into such a good copy of Az herself that even her sisters don’t know which one is the real her.A handsome youth morphs into a decrepit elder before turning to dust with the weight of his years and evil deeds. There’s a reference to drinking blood.The abovementioned horror elements are especially jarring given the rather sugary tone of the rest of the book.Politics & Religion: This fantasy world is a lot like nineteenth-century Europe; it even appears to be Christian. That said, a piece of silver seems to be a more effective ward against dark magic than a sacramental in this universe.ConclusionsI tried reading this book awhile back and it didn’t click, so I’m glad I reread it. It’s got much more going for it than I noticed the first time.Entwined is hard to put down, thanks to its detailed and charming setting, its clipped tempo, and the heartwarming scenes of sisterhood. The girls eventually letting their father back into their lives is also poignant and well-written.Dixon, now Dixon Wallwork, steals from the best when creating the Wentworth princesses. Azalea is Meg March, dignified and pretty, with a weakness for soft-spoken brown-eyed men. Bramble is Jo, melodramatic and rowdy and given to flash fires of rage. Clover, the impossibly kind and shy one, is a lot like Beth, although she has a secret not unlike Meg’s (no spoilers). Delphinium is blonde and flouncy and whiny and likes to draw, so Amy without the tantrums. Eve comes from Pride & Prejudice, a younger and much less pompous Mary Bennet. The cloud of little sisters who follow them everywhere begging for song and dance call to mind the younger von Trapps in The Sound of Music. These are all great things to be reminded of.The scenes of the sisters being sisters are perfect. Unfortunately, the supernatural elements don’t seem as well-planned and don’t always fit with the rest of the story.I understand that the girls wanted nothing more than to dance again, so it made sense that the first time they stumbled into the magic garden, they went straight for the pavilion. But it struck me as rather odd that they never ventured beyond it. Other retellings of the Twelve Dancing Princesses usually offer an explanation for this. In Wildwood Dancing, the girls were under the protection of the Faerie Queen, and risked being carried off by vampires if they stepped beyond the borders of her small realm. In Princess of the Midnight Ball, the sisters didn’t want to be in the underground realm at all; they just did their sentences on the dance floor and went home. But what excuse do the Wentworths have for not exploring? If their secret passage had brought them to Narnia instead of Keeper’s realm, they would probably have just danced in a ring around the Lamppost until someone happened upon them.Then there’s Keeper. We can figure out from early on that there’s something off about him. If he had nothing to hide, he wouldn’t have flooded his park in a desperate effort to make the girls stay and listen to him.That said, “desperate and melodramatic” does not necessarily equal “pure evil bent on taking over the kingdom.” The archetype Keeper first appears to be is not the archetype he winds up being.A brief guide to the main types of villains one finds in the fantasy genreI.	The Ancient Eeeeevil Rising AgainII.	The Political MegalomaniacIII.	The Corrupted Good GuyIV.	The Diabolical Being Who Wants Power and RevengeV.	The Sleazebag with Bad Intentions Toward the HeroineVI.	The Seemingly Wholesome Person Who Had Everyone FooledVII.	The Troubled Young(ish) Individual Who is Manipulated by Dark Forces, Is Probably Cursed, and Usually Becomes a Good GuyObviously a character can be more than one of these. But Keeper floats between categories to a maddening degree, at least if you’re fussy about this stuff.The lack of consistency renders Keeper a bit flimsy, like Prince Hans in Frozen, who was obviously not originally conceived as an evil character. They’re just evil because “ooh, what a twist!” even though neither is much of a twist. We know right away that Keeper must be the High King; there’s no other figure in the back-story who would need to be coy about his identity. But the tone of the “history” is propagandistic. I was sure we would learn that the tale of the High King vs. Harold I had been heavily abridged, rather like in Prince Caspian, where our main character grows up being told that his ancestors brought civilization to beasts and wild men, only to learn that they were actually fantastic racists who hunted the many peoples of Narnia almost to extinction. But Keeper’s first menacing act—raising the brook so the girls have to stay in the pavilion and introduce themselves to him—isn’t anything that the Beast or Erik the Opera Ghost wouldn’t have done. It’s a selfish use of magic to frighten, but the girls were never in any danger of drowning. It also implies that he’s lonely, and may need True Love to lift his curse. None of this turns out to be true.To make another comparison with The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (I know, I know, but the stories have some similarities), let’s see how that evil magician villain is introduced. The first thing Jadis does upon meeting Edmund is almost deal him a killing blow with her wand. She barely stops herself, and her overlay of kindness is hasty and thin. Edmund, being an insecure eleven-year-old boy who hasn’t had dessert in two years because war rations, lacks the clarity of mind to see through her, but the reader knows that she is vicious. Her archetype is consistent from beginning to end. Other than Keeper, the young men in this book are pleasant but insubstantial. Fairweller can get away with it, since he’s not in it that much. So can Lord Teddie—he only has one note, but that one note is Tigger in a top hat, so you can’t stay mad at him.But it is a problem with Mr. Bradford, who is the love interest for the main character and should really have more than one personality trait (in his case, being adorable). He’s a lot like John Brooke, who was fine as the suitor of the MC’s sister. But the love interest of the MC should really be livelier and more detailed. This guy is so agreeable and vague, he makes Raoul de Chagny look like Eugenides of Eddis. This book has delightful main characters and a perfect confection of a pseudo-Victorian setting. However, the horror elements seemed out-of-nowhere and the villain couldn’t make up his mind what sort of villain he was. That said, more of the book works than doesn’t. Recommended for fairytale fans.