“We're all monsters, Nadya, some of us just hide it better than others.”“Are we so different, Nadya?” He lifted his hand, fingers tipped with long claws, and pressed his thumb against her lips. “We both long for freedom. For power. For a choice. We both want to see our kingdoms survive.”* krizzie is freaking out atm because of this book *AHHH first I now have to have a huge panic and excitement attack from finishing this book because * internal screaming * this was a 5 star read and my heart is happy but also in panic because of this ending and needing the second book so desperately [ it comes in Monday * sobs * ] honestly just aaah. I need too scream all my emotions of now first before starting this review because this book was just so good. it has it all. morally grey , enemies to lovers , amazing world aah. Wicked saints  is the first book in the something dark and holy triology by Emely A. Duncan and it was such a masterpiece of a book. I want too throw this in everyone their face and scream read it because it is such a wild ride. The story takes place in two countries in this high fantasy world that are at war with each other. The country called Kalyazin. This country believes that the magic in this world comes from the gods and is something holy. And then we have the other country which is Tranavia and the people that live here use a different kind of magic then that is approved by the gods ; blood magic. Super gross dark blood magic too have magic. So they are at war because Tranavia wants too take the lands of Kalyazin. Nadya is a cleric who can speak too the gods and is the only one of her people , the people of Kalyazin left that has the magic of the gods. The people of Tranavia want her and her powers. One day her home gets attacked and she gets away. Then when she is on the run she teams up with a team of rebels that are enemies but she has too team up with them because they discovered they have the same goal. One of them is a blood mage , the people from Tranavia who Nadya hates but is he truly evil or isn’t he who knows HMMM. We read from her point of vieuw and from the point of vieuw from the crown prince of Tranavia also a powerful bloodmage called Severin who has been send by his father too go and find this escaped cleric aka Nadya. So yes that is the plot without spoiling but we warned. Nothing literally nothing is as it seems in this book. There are somany twistst and turns and OMG. All the charracters are morally grey and have many layers and secrets and the world is super dark and so are the relationships being formed and this book has a very good enemies to lovers to enemies to lovers too HMM. What shall it be. Am I am a mess. That ending. Things I loved about this book -	Morally grey complex multiple layered character – I am not going too say too much about the charracters because you have too figure them out for yourself and their layers and moral greyness. if you know me then you know the thing I love most in a story is morally grey charracters and aaah. The 3 main charracters we follow in this book are all 3 morally grey. We have Nedya  who at first believes in everything the country has thought her about her gods and her magic and the holy ness and about hating the enemie but the slowly begings too discover that not everything is as it seems. She isn’t whiny. She is capable of handling herself without being arrogant and just ugh. Her development in this book is fire. Then we have  Malachiasz Czechowicz he reminds me of the darkling x nikolai ish character.and damn this is one hell of a tortured soul. Honestly he is everything I need in a male character. Dark past which we slowly get too know more about , villain vibes but also not which one is it HMM. Charming and broken. I cant say too much about the male character but well you will see. Then we have the third main character  Severin  also a tortured soul who deals with a lot and who is also HM good , bad what is he. And he is a sarcastic bean. You will see. Like all these charracters are just * cheff kiss * morally grey and I am obsessed. -	 The magic and world – this world is so dark and so cool. I was wanting too read more about it and more. We have blood magic , we have a group of blood magic practice’s who are called the vultures. They are normal people turned into these so called monsters and ugh. This world is just so awesome and I was craving at every description of it all. -Perfect balance between character driven , romance and plot - Enemies too lovers –  we have some good enemies too lovers and I am here for it. I enjoyed all these romance scenes and enemies too lovers scenes a lot. I loved the twist in the ending aswell even tho it breaks my fragile heart it is good. Love doesn’t always conquer everything. -  Power hunger being a huge part of the plot and charracters * my fav thing * and the question what is a god and what is religion. I also love the writing in this aaaand we have some bi and gay reps that she shining trough and we are obv. Here for it. Overall I just loved this book a lot. Everything just fitted for me and it is a constant question between what is right and what is wrong. It reminded me a bit of the level of moral greyness in the young elites meets grisha triology something ish. Anyway I recommend reading if you love moral grey , enemies too lovers and you like a world full of horror.