EDIT: Okay, so, yeah, 2020 is a distant memory now and I did not even think about starting the second book. I guess that it's two stars then. It took me a month to read this. And I mean a month to read, I was reading almost daily.  I was unsure of how to rate this book. On the one hand, I did not like it. On the other hand, I did like it a bit more than Serpent & Dove. The first would make this two stars, the second probably two and a half, therefore, three to make the difference visible. I've been flipping the coin on this for the whole day. And I settled on three stars for the time being. The reasonings are quite simple. While this one definitely was not my favourite, I'm seriously considering reading the next one because I believe and I hope that it has potential. So, the deal is, I give this three stars for now and if 2020 passes without me reading the next book, I'll change the rating to two stars. However, I'm saying it now; this is a two and a half stars, one of the weakest three stars I ever gave and I still do not feel right with giving this book three stars. (Hello, Goodreads? Yeah, it's me, I'm just calling again, we still need a bigger range in rating books, thank you!)Okay, to the book. I have to say that as someone who speaks a Slavic language I just find it so strange to see so many Slavic/Slavic inspired names in the middle of English text. Same with the "Slavic inspired languages" suddenly being spoken. I don't know why, but I personally find it a bit distracting. Also, why suddenly so many authors are obsessed with taking inspiration from Russia and at least here also from Poland I would presume? Tranavia is based on Poland, right? Or is that just my imagination?Anyway, I did not read it as Tranavia, but instead, I read Travian every single time, and it really reminded me how much fun I had with that game!As for the story... I don't think that it was terrible. It seems like a story with very good potential, unfortunately, all that all was clouded by the fact that I was bored a couple of chapters in and things only became interesting with only a handful chapters left. I mean if I were to sum up the story, it sounds quite fascinating. However, between the good parts, there were just too many fillers where nothing happened, and they just talked. Even when we get to the Rawalyk, it seems so pointless. Yeah, someone dies, there is a dinner, and then the story moves from it. Feels a bit pointless that for more than a half of the book, the characters did not talk about anything but Rawalyk.  Nadya, what should I say about her? She's very unmemorable to me, she's fading in with so many others not really that great YA/fantasy heroines. She also needs to get off her high horse. Because that was one of my main problems with her, aside from being unmemorable, she was on the highest high horse I've encountered in a very long time. The horse was that high that all the other characters did not reach the horse's hooves even if they were at the top of the Pelageya's tower.Her quest was divine and the Tranavians were hereticsYou are a heretic. You just laid out sheer heresy in front of me. And my power is divine; calling me 'holier than thou' i just trite." Did I mention that Nadya is on a high horse? Her "heretic" this and "heretic" that made her so unlikeable that it became quite hard to even care about the Kalyazin at all. It's so funny how one moment she's like "oh, they are not all that bad, I don't want to kill this person or that person" and the next she's on the heretic tirade once again. Maybe you noticed, but Nadya was one of my main problems with this book. She would need some serious character development for me to get past book two. Why there is romance forced into every YA/fantasy story? Zero chemistry between Nadya and Malachiasz. Totally forced. And it felt like the romance was forced so that Nadya would have a reason not to attack Malachiasz in the end. I mean she spent most of the book saying that she would kill him anyway for being Tranavian. Then he is revealed to be worse than she thought that he is the worse. And she does nothing? Pathetic.Malachiasz... He is definitely a more interesting character than Nadya is. But I'm going to say it here and now. At first? Yeah, okay. But in the last let's say 15%? Yeah, that's the character I want. "We're all monsters, Nadya," Malachiasz said, his voice gaining a few tangled chords of chaos. "Some of us just hide it better than others." Why do I fell that the sentence missing from here is: "You're monster as well, Nadya."?Parijahan and Rashid seemed like very interesting characters but did not have enough space to get properly developed. And for some reason, they feel like the characters who will die trying to save the main character, which is disappointing. Serefin. In a very tentative way, I'm going to say that I like him. But. I did like him more at the beginning of the book, where he was a bit more fierce? Cruel? Cutthroat? Slightly opposite to Malachiasz. But still, he is one of the more fun characters in this book. Which connects to Ostyia and Kacper, totally my favourite characters and I need more on them! I can take just books on Ostyia, Kacper and Serefin. I have nothing more to say; they are just the best.