I felt one thing while reading this book. Just one: This was a buddy read with the lovely Rendz. She is all around wonderful and I suggest you check out her page and her reviews! I had a great discussion with her on this book and there I realized that I might be, in fact, heartless because I gave very little mercy to this book. But hey, at least Rendz had better luck with it than I did. I wanted to love this. I wanted so badly to fall head over heels for this book. I went into it expecting it to be dark and epic and just plain good. But alas, I did not love it, nor did I think just plain good.This book had the potential to be one of the best books I read in 2019. I think that knowing it had so much untapped potential is what makes it worse for me though.The novel’s premise is extremely interesting. The foundation is set for this novel to be amazing.The three main characters, Nadya, a girl who speaks to gods; Serafin, a warrior prince trying to save himself from the dangers of court; and Malachiasz, a boy with terrible magic that hides secrets and monsters inside of himself. Mix them all together and have them plot to assassinate an evil king. Throw in some blood magic, some gods that may or may not be gods, some betrayal, some secrets, and a sprinkle of romance and you have the recipe for awesome.But alas, that potential was never met. Everything felt halfway to me.In theory, the characters are all really cool. Still, I couldn’t connect to any of them. I felt like we were only shown the surface of who they were. This was made worse when the romance started coming forth. It felt like Nadya (whom I never really liked) and Malachiasz (who had serious character potential) completely undid their character arcs the moment they fell in love, especially Nadya. As for Serafin, I feel like I know very little about him, other than the fact that he likes being drunk.The magic system was also that was in theory, very cool, but was in reality pretty confusing. There was never a set of rules established for how the magic worked. I think that giving it parameters and letting us know what could and couldn’t be done with it would have been cooler.Another issue I had was with how easy everything was. There would be a lot of build up for things and then nothing would happen. They would just accidentally slide into convenient situations. Or, they would just effortlessly get a hold of information that was supposed to be secret. It felt anticlimactic.Like when they made the plan on how they were going to sneak into Tranavia and they made a big deal of it talking about how important it was to get the plan just right. Mal kept pressuring Nadya to perfect her accent and saying all the terrible things that would happen if they got caught. Then they just sort of walked into Tranavia wasn’t even that hard. They literally said like two lines to the guard and they let them throughThis book had ‘a lot’ of representation. Serafin is bi, Ostyia was a lesbian, and Rashid and Parajihan were people of color, also Kacper is definitely either gay or bi because I was totally getting that vibe when he was alone with Serafin.That said if any, or even if all of those characters had been removed, the story would probably have gone down pretty much the same, I think. Their presence never felt vital to the story. In fact, no one but the three main characters, felt necessary for the story to happen. It’s a shame too because all the minor characters had the potential to be really interesting if their backstories had been fleshed out. But they never were. Overall, I didn’t love this one. As you could see. This is the kind of book that I’m certain that many of you would like. It’s also the kind of book that many of you would find problems with. It currently (as of 4/1/19) this book has a 3.91 on Goodreads. So, it’s your call. I personally don’t recommend it.Sorry. Not sorry.TW: Self-harm and just general cutting of one's flesh. Parental Abuse. **I received an advance copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.** Follow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest