this was a really fun and interesting look at all of the "history" and myths and legends behind A Song of Ice and Fire. it is written in the style of one of that series' maesters so it is amusingly pedantic in tone, slanted against magic, and often quite obsequious towards then-king Robert Baratheon. I loved that faux-author's voice; the actual authors did a great job in capturing the feeling of a professor condescendingly lecturing his students while developing and expanding on Westeros and the Known World. it was all so drily amusing. and the art is fantastic! the book itself is nicely thick and weighty, with high quality paper and covers. a perfect coffee table book for a family of nerds. or hey, even a nerd bachelor like myself. the volume is divided into roughly three parts: a history of Westeros including the arrival of the First Men, the Andals, and a king-by-king chronicle of each of the Targaryens; an overview of each of the 7 kingdoms (although 8 are actually described - those poor riverlands don't even count as a kingdom); and descriptions of various cities and lands outside of Westeros.things I particularly enjoyed:- the in-depth details of the various Targaryen reigns. - maze-makers in Lorath!- a poisonous city in Sothoros!- Asshai-by-the-Shadow!- a city called Carcosa all the way behind the Shadow! and other surprising Weird Fiction and Cthulhu-isms, including a couple references to "Deep Ones".- particularly loved the illustrations of each of the 7 kingdoms' capital city. The Eyrie, Casterly Rock, and Highgarden were awesome. ok if I had to live anywhere in Westeros, it would have to be The Reach.- lots of details of two underrated kingdoms: The Iron Islands and Dorne.- quite a lot about Tywin Lannister, which was particularly great to read since he lacks a POV in the books.- and I didn't realize that the Starks were the only royal family to rule or dominate their realm from the beginning. apparently the Baratheons replaced the Durrandons, the Martells replaced the Yronwoods, the Arryns replaced the Royces, the Lannisters replaced the Casterlys, the Greyjoys replaced the Hoars, the Tyrells replaced the Gardeners. I imagine all of that info is in ASOIF but it really stood out to me when reading this.ok enough nerding out on this. if you love the series as much as I do, you should probably just invest the bucks and buy this. and don't buy it on kindle for chrissakes.I suppose the less said the better about all of the negative comments and the 1 star reviews that appeared before the book even came out. or that have appeared since. ugh, whiny and entitled people just drive me up the wall. boo hoo hoo, I've been waiting so so long for the next book that I've soiled my diapers because this isn't that next book so I'm going to be a bitter little baby about it. waaaa! FUCK OFF, IDIOTS.