Having read all the excerpts that were released before the official publication of this book, I had been fervently anticipating this "encyclopedia" for months.Before I dive into the review of this book, I would like to address some of the comments I saw on this page. Now, while I understand the frustration of fans who'd rather see Martin finish off the main series, I vehemently disagree that this book is nothing more than "garbage" "filler". (I had been a fan of this series since 1999, when most people are still ignorant of its awesomeness, so don't presume to lecture me about patience.) I also disagree with comments unjustly criticizing co-writers Elio and Linda's knowledge of the series and authenticity--FYI, they proof-read Martin's work before it is sent in to the publisher, help Martin look out for inconsistencies (usually spotted by fans like us who would complain to no end upon discovering it), and they certainly know more about the universe and series than the likes of you and me.This book, I feel, did an exceedingly great job at painting the complex universe that Martin has created. This book is no Silmarillion but it was good. It is a wonderful book that casually dispels some existing fan theories, while creating new ones. It answers a lot of existing questions, while creating two more in its place. In a way, I found it both intriguing and frustrating. That said, I could only recommend this to devoted (by that I mean hardcore) fans of A Song of Ice and Fire. This is a book for fans who love re-reads, analysis and discussions; it isn't for the casual fans or for those only interested in knowing "what happens next".I found myself constantly entertained by Mushroom’s theories. In more ways than one, he is like us—the gossipers of Westeros. Some friends and myself actually discussed the possibility of Aegon I being impotent and that none of the current Targaryens were of his seed per say. I find myself agreeing with a good majority of what Barth writes and admiring the neutrality of the author for most parts of the book…well, at least until I read these:
“The crowning of the Stark girl, who was by all reports a wild and boyish young thing with none of the Princess Elia’s delicate beauty, could only have been meant to win the allegiance of Winterfell to Prince Rhaegar’s cause, Symond Staunton suggested to the king.”
And, this.
“As his first act, the unwed king took to wife the most beautiful woman in the realm, Cersei of House Lannister—thereby granting to House Lannister all the honors that Aerys had denied it.”
AND, this.
“I first set the framework for this history during the peaceful years at the height of good King Robert’s reign, intending to dedicate the volume to Robert and his heirs as a history of the land and the world that they had inherited.But such was not to be. The death of the noble Hand, Jon Arryn, has unleashed a madness on the land, a madness of pride and violence. The madness has robbed the realm of Robert, and of his fair son and heir Joffrey. Pretenders strive to steal the Iron Throne, and disturbing rumors of dragons reborn trickle in from the east.In such times of trouble, we must all pray that good King Tommen shall see a long reign, and a just one, to usher us again out of the darkness and into the light.”
I mean...come on! Perhaps I am being too harsh on Maester Yandel, as he was writing this book as a gift for the King of Westeros but it is fairly obvious that the subject on the Lannisters is the one thing he is unable to be objective on.Anyway, here are some quick points and questions I have formed while reading TWoIaF:1.	The assertion that the Long Night is only felt in the north of Westeros is wrong. The Long Night is proven to be felt all over the known world, even at the far eastern most edges of Essos, with each culture/society creating its own heroes and version of events. However, curiously, there are no mention of the Others anywhere else other than the North—and we know for a fact they are real. (Also, ice dragons are real.)2.	House Tully are the muppets, with names like Elmo and Kermit.3.	There is an unfulfilled “Pact of Ice and Fire” made by Lord Cregan Stark and the Targaryens, which promises to marry a Targaryen princess into the Stark family. Will we ever see this fulfilled in the main series, I wonder?4.	Aegon the Unlikely reminded me a lot about Dany. She, too, was raised amongst peasants and does various reforms to better the lives of the commoners. Like her ancestor, she, too, was met with strong resistance from the ruling nobles. Will she succeed where Egg had failed?5.	Speaking of Egg, SEVEN HELLS IT WAS EGG THAT IMPRISONED BLOODRAVEN! I’ve always thought that Maekar had Bloodraven imprisoned during his term as King but they apparently sorted out their differences as Bloodraven was still Maekar’s Hand during his reign.6.	I am a huge fan of Nymeria, Bloodraven and Visenya (the sister of Aegon I). I hate Aegon IV with a passion. I used to think that he was Robert Baratheon in blonde hair but, no, he is a lot worse.7.	My guess is that there is some form of ancient civilisation (I’m not sure if it’s still there) west over the Sunset Sea. The hint lies in the Seastone Chair and architecture of Hightower in Oldtown.8.	Aerys I and Tywin were best buds in youth! Truthfully, I did not see that coming but it makes sense.9.	 Aerys I and Joanna Lannister did have an affair (whether consensual or coerced) before she was sent away by Rhaella and wed her cousin, Tywin. The timeline of events make A+J=C+J improbable but makes it possible for Joanna to be in King’s Landing for Tyrion’s conception. Still, I doubt Joanna would sleep with Aerys after he humiliated her in front of the entire court.10.	Could the forging and reforging of Valyrian steel involve a blood sacrifice, as rumoured in the books?11.	Emphasis on Daemon Blackfyre's line ending on the male side.I would recommend going for the physical hardcover book, instead of the e-book as the artwork and maps turn out much better in hardcopy. It is a monster to carry around for reading, though, and there's where the e-book version carries an edge.