How many others had she judged and set aside like that, thinking them no more than a one-sided piece of paper?In The Paper Magician, Ceony, a new graduate of Tagis Praff School for the Magically Inclined she has been forced to study a part of magic no one else will - paper. Upset about not being able to choose to go into the medium of her choice, she is surprised to discover Mg. Thane is nothing like she expected. When he is attacked by a Excisioner, a magician using flesh as a medium, who then steals his heart it is up to her to save him.I'm hovering between 3 and 4 stars here. I finally settled on 4 because for a first book I was thoroughly impressed. Her writing was simplistic, yet beautiful making this a really enjoyable read. I'm definitely keeping an eye out for some of her later works.PositivesThe main character was not very likeable at the start being bratty and snooping through Mg. Thane's things, but she started to grow on me as she realized that things aren't what she assumed. It was a joy to watch her grow throughout the book. She is headstrong and gets herself into some bad situations. But is smart and resourceful and isn't afraid to speak her mind. I found myself liking her.My favorite character was Mg. Thane, who while a tad eccentric, did his best to be kind to Ceony even when she didn't deserve it. The world was well built. At no time did it feel like information overload, nor did I feel like I was missing details. It was shown piece by piece in a way that world. And I loved the new take on magic. How magicians manipulated mediums such as paper, rubber, plastic, metal and glass, creating things such as paper flying machines, or bullets that don't miss.The romance was a tad cheesy but I didn't hate it. You heard it here first folks. Kaora found a book where she did not mind the romance! There was no insta-love. Spotting a person across the room and instantly wanting to brush that hair out of their face. There was no love triangle. Because you aren't pretty unless you have two guys fighting for you. Ceony got to know Thane and genuinely started to care about him.The pacing was good for the first half of the book. At no time did I feel bored with it. In fact I read it in its entirety in a day, which is rare for me. I often have to switch between books.NegativesI'm going to have to put the romance here too. Mg. Thane was her teacher and he is 31 and she is 19, making it a tad bit on the creepy side.The pacing for the last half of the book was not as great as the first half. It seemed to be a little more rushed. I would have liked to see more on Lira and Mg. Thane. I felt like the author touched on it, but didn't go into too much detail.Overall I am really impressed and I recommend anyone who needs a light and clever fantasy read.Cross posted at Kaora's Corner.