I'm pretty picky about my historical fiction. I want it to be, well, historical. If it's set in the early 1900's, I don't want the characters to use modern slang, like something being "shot to hell." I want them to talk and relate to each other as people of the period did. Granted, it does make it tricky for the authors sometimes - to make characters that fit in with historical social conventions but that are still appealing to contemporary audiences. If all you do is take characters who talk and act as if they were in contemporary times and dress them in period garments and give them candles instead of light bulbs... Well, that's something I'm always going to be a bit disappointed in. Why even bother? It's like you've set your book at a costume party!I guess Steampunk has made the era popular, but there's so much a modern setting could have done for this book! If Paper Magicians were out of style because electronic media were taking over - emails over printed letters, ebooks over physical books - wouldn't that just be awesome and interesting? Could there be magicians aligned to circuit boards? Or would magicians for plastic and smelting have to work together? Instead, we're just told that Folding has gone out of style and we're left to assume that's because it's mostly used for decorative and entertainment purposes... Yet we're not really told what can be done with the other materials. It's a shame really. This book could have been so wonderful. It's got such a whimsical premise that I immediately picked it out of the Kindle First selections this month without even looking at the other options, but in reality, most of that whimsy is left unexplored.Perhaps my expectations were too high? Maybe the cover art had me subconsciously expecting another Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell (which this certainly isn't) or maybe the typically masculine author name didn't leave me prepared enough for the level of romance in the book.And sadly, the romance doesn't appeal to me at all. In part that's because I'm not a big fan of romances to begin with, but the romance in this book is particularly unappealing to me because it's all about the GUY. The relationship starts out as a student/teacher relationship, and he's PAID for her education so there's some extra weight to the student/teacher status as well so it's an extremely unequal scenario from the very start. But then about a third to half the book is the main character getting a cliff notes summary of the love interest's past - so  she gets to know HIS past really well, but neither the reader nor the love interest gets to know her at even close to the same level of detail. It's very one-sided. And after reading the book, I glanced at the author's bio and saw this about her relationship with her husband: "Shortly afterwards, her darling husband dragged her to Moscow, Idaho, where he subsequently impregnated her." Granted, it's a joke to some extent... But I can't help but notice that sentence is all about the guy too.