A mad journey about change.
Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Jill Thompson & Vince LockeCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein
COINS, BUTTERFLIES, PONdS, QUESTS & FAMILIES
In the review about the sixth volume, Fables & Reflections, I recommended that it was better to read the introduction after reading the TPB, and surprising enough in this seventh volume, Brief Lives, they just decided to putt he introduction at the end of the TPB. Curiouser and curiouser. Oh, and read it, not only it’s by Peter Straub, but it’s helpful to recollect your own thoughts after the reading of the story.
She was a remarkable woman.

All women are remarkable.
This volume has one long storyline, so, readers who are looking for long storylines will be delighted, I comment it since I noticed how odd some fans of The Sandman aren’t particularly thrilled about the volumes with collections of short stories.I enjoy the collections of short stories, but also I can appreciate a long storyline.
It’s nothing to do with me any longer. It’s theirs.

They can make their own destruction.
Quite early in the run of The Sandman it was commented that one of the Endless, Destruction, left his realm and nobody has known about him since then. Three hundred years later, Delirium, another of the Endless, is missing him and she wants to look for him.The Endless famly isn’t a tight one, it seems, since Delirium has troubles to find a partner in her quest. Desire says no. Even Despair (who was quite attached to Destruction) says no. So, in order of younger to older, Delirium goes to the next member of the family......Dream.And it isn’t an easy task, since Dream isn’t in good mood. He was in love (mentioned in the previous volume, but there and here, is a mystery the identity of the woman), but she left him.It’s amusing that the sisters sentimentally closer to Destruction, are Despair and Delirium. Amusing and kinda obvious.But while you will get to know about the whereabouts of Destruction, a mystery mentioned since the beginning of the second volume, The Doll’s House, but as you may guess, the Endless family has many mysteries, and you will be introduced (but not fully disclosured) about a couple of new mysteries. Delirium wasn’t Delirium since the beginning of her existence, she was something different before and maybe she hasn’t stopped about changing. And an Endless can be destroyed and its realm falling under the responsibility of another member of the Endless.
I thought we were friends.

Friends, my sister? I thought we were famliy.
Families are complicated. Families are full of characters. There is the dreamer, the crazy one, maybe some Goth fan, perhaps an addicted to sex, by some chance one desperate case, surely a quite one and of course that member of the family that nobody has heard since a while.The Endless isn’t different than any other family, with the only difference that they existed since the creation and each of them are responsable of realms with power over mortals. But a family at the end.The Endless isn’t a close family because hey! Destruction disappeared for 300 years and everybody else was okay with that (sure, he announced that he was gonna dissapear, but hey, 300 years and nobody having to try to know if he’s okay?) and Dream was trapped against his will for 72 years and none member of his family tried to look after him.So, quests for a family member is something hard to sale between the Endless, maybe due his recent imprisonment and lefting him to his chance, provoked to Dream to be the one helping Delirium, but it’s not like he was that excited about the idea.You will learn that there aren’t one-sided coins.And the Endless are like the oldest coins ever.Life is about change. But everybody is affraid of changing. Even the people who think that they aren’t affraid of changing, that they do different things all the time, well, it’s very likely that they are affraid of changing and stop doing different things all the time. Everything is about the angle of you are looking at it.But definitely, changes are what enriches our lives.It's wonderful to realize that not matter how extensive is human language, there are still some plausible situations that we don't a word to describe them. Priceless.Also, you will learn that when some Babylonian god isn’t so popular anymore, instead of just retiring to the oblivion, he can look for something else to do besides well, being a god, he only needs to find the right new market to attend to. Maybe even you can learn that while many of us are mortals, some of us have a little longer lifespan, but at the end, well, there is indeed an end.And not matter how long those lives may be, all of us will think that they were......just too brief.