“Sister? Where should we start?""Here?""Very good. We are here. Where should we travel to now?""...somewhere that's not here?""That was the idea. Yes.”I've been looking forward to this volume for a while. I knew there was something that focused on Delirium and Dream --- however I hadn't expected to love every moment of it so much. There are magazines that often publish photos of celebrities buying groceries, as if it's somehow exciting that a sitcom actress requires food, but reading this kind of made me get the appeal. I didn't expect to find it so enjoyable to see Delirium and Dream doing these ordinary things. They went on a plane. They head off on a funny and tragic road trip. They stay in a motel -- and I loved watching them doing these mundane things just because it was them. Because I know who they are and what they are capable of, so there is this unexpected joy to seeing them drive a car or sit in a rowboat. Also Dream's expression, (or lack of one) for most of the hijinks was so funny. He's a character I love deeply, but he's not typically the one you look to for a comedic moment!The simple version of the plot of this one is that Delirium wants to find Destruction. Neither Desire or Despair will help her, but Dream agrees. Their relationship is fragile, often awkward and I found the sweeter moments between them rather touching. Sometimes Dream is harsher on his sister than I would like him to be, but have sympathy for him too. She is wonderful and damaged (I think?) and exhausting. She's also a really good driver!“I like airplanes. I like anywhere that isn't a proper place. I like in betweens.”The conversation between Dream and Destruction was such a great exchange of ideas, a clash of very different viewpoints. I think I would be more likely to share Dream's take on duty and the responsibilities of being of the Endless, but I appreciated his brother's side. Destruction said some excellent things too, though the second one is him quoting Death:“I like the stars. It's the illusion of permanence, I think. I mean, they're always flaring up and caving in and going out. But from here, I can pretend...I can pretend that things last. I can pretend that lives last longer than moments. Gods come, and gods go. Mortals flicker and flash and fade. Worlds don't last; and stars and galaxies are transient, fleeting things that twinkle like fireflies and vanish into cold and dust. But I can pretend...”“Then she told me everyone can know everything Destiny knows. And more than that. She said we all not only could know everything. We do. We just tell ourselves we don't to make it all bearable.”I think though that the most poignant line comes directly from Death:“You lived what anybody gets, Bernie. You got a lifetime. No more. No less.”After the evening spent with Destruction, we get a beautiful but heartbreaking conclusion to the story of Orpheus. There have been moments when I have felt deep sympathy for Dream, but this surpassed them all. It was terrible, even though it felt like the right thing. And then we have the rather chilling confession from Desire that what has happened makes them scared. And Despair agrees. There are other intriguing details that were introduced too. “Do you know why I stopped being Delight, my brother? I do. There are things not in your book. There are paths outside this garden.”I learned more about Delirium just as I had hoped, but when she said this I knew that it's just scratched the surface. And the discussion about Despair means I am desperate to know more. I'm not sure I entirely understood it, but what was implied was fascinating.