4.5 stars.Ever since I've read Ken Liu's The Paper Menagerie and Other Stories, I knew that I will definitely want to read The Dandelion Dynasty as well.   His writing and ability to convey themes of humankind through philosophy and history is incredible.  It's always graceful, and makes one ponder and reflect without feeling bludgeoned by moralistic preaching.   I was frankly quite shocked at the average rating of this book even before I read it, and now I truly feel that this book (and series so far) had been shockingly and undeservedly underrated.  It pleased me greatly to see increasingly more book-bloggers and booktubers singing its praises of late (my co-blogger, Petrik, included), because I think this book marked the beginnings of a true masterpiece.The narrative in The Grace of Kings was inspired by ancient epic Chinese history, specifically the fall of the Qin Dynasty which led to the Chu-Han contention and then the founding of the Han Dynasty.  It is a reimagining of historical events in a silkpunk fantasy setting, and I loved it.  As with all stories that have a historical basis and one that reflected upon an important transition in the supreme seat of power, the cast is significantly large.  Nonetheless, while not a character-driven story, I found myself invested in some of key characters (namely Kuni Garu and Jia) fairly early on in the book.  Contrary to some of the reviews I've seen, women were not sidelined at all.  In fact, Ken Liu has given the women more agency in the story than the history books ever did.   Yes, it took a good portion of the book to get there (which is not unexpected given its inspiration), but when it does it was done fantastically and did not feel forced at all.  In fact, the women's contribution to the climactic turn of events made a lot of sense even in the historical context of our gender's role.Petrik told me that the historical inspiration ends by the conclusion of this book, and the story heads into a different direction which was completely original and utterly masterful.  Well, I'm sure most of you would have seen his reviews which praised these books highly.  I will gladly and wholeheartedly join in with those praises, albeit with a lot less words.  I don't have it in me anymore nowadays and seriously, Ken Liu just makes me feel inadequate in this respect as his books always come across as being immensely intelligent.