"Fire and ice, somehow existing together without destroying each other. More proof that I belonged with him."  Theory time-   or maybe I am just overthinking  Caius calls the werewolves 'shapeshifters' and later Edward goes on to tell that there were different kinds of werewolves that existed before Caius had them hunted to near extinction. (Ones that needed the full moon and all). So if that's true, is it possible that Stephenie Meyer might write about them? With two more books to come..a darker story perhaps? Could it be that Stephenie Meyer included that bit of information with a spin off in mind and never executed it?~•~•~So many thoughts, if this review feels messy to you please note that there was a lot to cover and apologies for the lack of order and for the length of this review lol.  Let me start by saying that this book really is a work of art despite the many  many  flaws. Breaking Dawn has been written with so much love, it's hard to not just immerse yourself in it and enjoy the sweetness of it. Although I do wish there were Volturi deaths in it😂  Part 1- Bella  The fact that the wedding theme was centred around Edward was so precious! I loved that idea; given how he has been so selfless throughout the series this was something he deserved. The wedding was absolutely beautiful. I loved Billy, Seth and Sue were in attendance. But I do wish that their honeymoon phase had lasted for long. That Bella had stayed human for a bit longer. I wish we could've seen them go to Dartmouth together. Bella and Edward as a couple rarely got a moment alone in this book and although it's not a big flaw, it was something I personally wish I could've seen more of. Their time on Isle-Esme was a definite highlight.  Part 2- Jacob  Jacob's POV was another highlight for me in this book. It's so easy to read, always humourous and unputdownable. Jacob brings a lively aura to the book, there's never a dull moment with him. I liked how he stepped up as an Alpha. The relationship with Seth and Leah as betas was so worth reading. The way Jacob warms up to the Cullens is so satisfying to read. Seth's relationship with the Cullens have always been friendly but I liked how much more of it we got to see and Leah's restrictions maintained a balance. Leah being the only ever female werewolf to exist in the Twilight world is something I wish Stephenie Meyer would've handled better. I would still LOVE for a spin off series for the wolves. The pregnancy was meh. I'm not a fan of the pregnancy trope and this book might be the reason why. It robbed me off the Edward- Bella moments. I know I'm being petty but it is what it is 😂🙈 Rosalie and Bella's budding friendship was a nice change tho. The birth scene was so INTENSE, it still gives me chills every time I read it. I'm so glad Meyer didn't end it on a cliffhanger and made us wait for the next book - that would've been devastating.  Part 3- Bella  So her newborn experience was AMAZING. She was born to be a vampire and that showed. Bella's character felt so much lighter, easy going and it brought so much color to her personality. But this the part where I find most of my flaws. Firstly let me address the name- Renesmee Carlie Cullen- it's a buzzkill. I get it Meyer was trying to be sentimental but I gagged. Secondly, the imprinting- Jacob didn't need anyone. He was doing fine on his own. There was no need for him to get a love interest especially one that just came out of Bella's womb looking like Annabelle from the Conjuring!! The imprinting IS so problematic on many levels and I don't see how there are people justifying it. Meyer could've written a spin off series and then Jacob could've imprinted on someone his own age, or close to his age. This whole imprinting part is something I try very hard to forget about. Thirdly, I don't think that Alice leaving and the whole J. Jenks thing made much sense. It was a whole "what if" scenario. Moving on, I wish the conflict with the Volturi could've been darker. The movies did it better. But that's not something worth complaining about. I loved how Bella's supernatural gift as being a shield was utilised. It was badass. Something underrated about the third part is- Charlie and Bella's relationship. Charlie is such a good father, he should be protected at all costs🥺 You know that list that's at the end of the book (made by Jacob), it irks me how there's not an asterisk on Emmett's name. It's something very petty but it does bother me🙈🙈This was such a beautiful book to end an equally beautiful Saga. I still miss the characters so much🥺 It wasn't a perfect book or a perfect series, but it's quite lovable. I didn't want it to end but glad I have  Midnight Sun  to satisfy my Edward heart.