****For you dumbasses people that look up to Bella Swan and think she's an inspiration (if such people exist in the world), read this:12 Things That The Twilight Series Taught Me1. It's okay to abandon your parents after graduation (literally)2. When a vampire wants to kill you, hide out on a mountain and run for your life while your boyfriend's family fight to protect you. 3. It is the most romantic and beautiful thing in the world when a guy you barely know oils your bedroom window to watch you sleep when you don't even know it.4. Beg your boyfriend to screw you over after he asks you to marry him5. If your boyfriend leaves you forever, it is perfectly understandable to give up on life and stop living. There is no hope of you moving on, so what's the point of existing in the world?6. When you have two guys fight over you, choose the more perfect, beautiful, flawless one (For me, he's a possessive, controlling asshole). Do not, under any cost, choose the less beautiful, flawed guy.7. It's okay not to have any aspirations, dreams, and goals for the future. When you have a hot sexy vampire boyfriend, it's okay to give up a promising future to be with him instead.8. Make friends at school and then literally ignore them and pretend they don't exist. After all, your life centers around only your smokin' boyfriend.9. When you fall in love with someone for their physical attributes or because they smell good, it is considered beautiful, undying, irreversible love. 10. If your precious gem of a boyfriend leaves you, it is alright to become an adrenaline junky, manipulate your friend into helping you conjure up hallucinations, and jump off a cliff months later.11. Kiss your best friend in front of your fiance after repeatedly saying you don't have feelings for him.(Saved the best for last)12. Vampires. Sparkle.You still love Meyer?Update: There was this crazy Twilight fangirl the other day who was like," I want to jump off a bridge to meet Edward." Meyer, do you see what you have done?? Your venom spreaded pretty far. You Edward lovers still think the Twilight series is amazing?