Twilight was bad. Not offensively bad, but where Twilight, New Moon, and Eclipse failed, Breaking Dawn succeeded. It managed to piss me off, make me laugh, and offend me.What's wrong with Breaking Dawn? Oh, where do I start? Let's see, inconsistent, dense characters, nauseatingly corny passages, enough plot holes to march a large army through, and a climactic ending that is anything but climactic. The ending did surprise me, but only because I never thought it was possible to write such a terribly pointless story. The beginning of the book is a continuation of the end of Eclipse, with Bella preparing for hers and Edward's wedding. Just how we came to the two of them getting married is bad enough; she wants to have sex with Edward and be turned into a vampire. Edward won't turn her into a vampire until she's his wife, and they both want to wait until after they're married to have sex. Why on earth morals and ethics are playing any part in this story whatsoever is beyond me. Edward claims that, while he believes he's going to hell just for being a vampire, he doesn't want to risk everything by destroying his one last virtue in the hell-fires of premarital sex. He also doesn't want to compromise Bella's virtue. *Cough*. 'Cause, you know, having sex with a creature your religion would consider an abomination is OK, just as long as you're married to it first.Does Bella want to marry Edward? Nope. She's only doing so because of the aforementioned sex and vampirism. But her reasons for being reluctant to marry are just as ridiculous as her reasons for going through with it; she's afraid of what her family and friends will think of her and Edward getting married at the tender ages of 18. OK, so willingly turning into a vampire and disappearing forever is all right, but heaven forbid someone whispers that you're too young to get married? If you're removing yourself from human society, what the hell does it matter? The honeymoon is just fraught with peril as Edward attempts to have sex with Bella without completely cutting loose and crushing her skull in a passionate rage. If I had a dime for every time....Bella gets pregnant and we spend the whole middle third of the book hearing about her condition through the eyes of Jacob the Wolfboy, Bella's best friend who is in love with her. The pregnancy is killing her, but she refuses to do anything but carry it to term (just a hint of anti-abortion sentiment there, huh?). It takes Jacob the Wolfboy to figure out that the baby needs blood to thrive in the womb....an entire family of vampires (one of whom is a 400 year old doctor) couldn't figure out that a baby fathered by a vampire would need blood? She has the baby, a daughter, that she names Renesmee (a hybrid of the names Renee and Esme...stupid fucking name). Renesmee is, of course, perfect. After nearly dying in childbirth, Edward turns Bella. Something I can't quite figure out is why he uses a giant steel syringe to inject his venom directly into Bella's heart...and *then* gives her small bites everywhere. One bite is enough to turn someone, so...Bella supposedly hates lying. Meyer drills this into our heads several times throughout the first three books. She hates lying, she's not any good at it, it makes her uncomfortable, etc. Not to mention the many times Bella became angry with Edward for not telling her the whole truth (his misguided attempt at protecting her from anything unpleasant). You would think that someone who dislikes being kept in the dark by the man she loves would go to great lengths to ensure she never does the same to him. You would think that, but apparently you would be wrong. The process of transformation from mortal to immortal is supposed to be exceedingly painful, stretching out over a period of two to three days. While everyone else who's undergone the transformation has writhed in pain for the duration, screaming for days on end, brave little Bella manages to keep herself completely under control. She never moves, never opens her eyes, never speaks, for fear that if she does, the screaming will commence. Then, when the transformation is complete and her pain is gone, what is her very first act as the newly immortal member of clan Cullen? She lies to them. Yes, she lies. She can't bear the thought of Edward feeling badly...feeling personally responsible for her days of intense agony. So she does the exact same thing that she previously, on many occasions, chastised him for. She pretends the transformation was a cake-walk, that she doesn't remember anything about it...thanks to Edward's brilliant idea of loading her up with morphine before injecting her with vamp juice. Apparently, Bella is much more special than anyone could ever imagine. While everyone else goes through their "newborn" phase of vampirism, spending a good year consumed by blood thirst and uncontrollable, unpredictable PMS-type mood swings, Bella is capable of skipping right over *that* unpleasantness. She comes very close to running down humans in the woods to feast on their flesh, but her concentration is broken by Edward and she's able to hold her breath and run away before killing anyone. Edward is just awe-struck by her self control. (By this point, I was wondering how long it would be before the rest of the vampires donned togas, placed a crown on Bella's head, and began bowing at her feet.)The characters are completely different. One expects characters to change over the course of a single story, much less a series of stories, but generally those changes are progressive. They mature and they change, for better or worse. These characters, on the other hand, are just different. The Edward from Twilight is completely absent in Breaking Dawn. Gone is the willful, wise, protective, stoic, quiet, bossy Edward. He's been replaced by his pussy-whipped, Bella-worshiping doormat of a twin. Bella herself has become even *more* selfish than we've ever seen her. The other characters are nothing more than peripheral. Meyer could have done a lot with the characters she introduced in the first book, but she failed spectacularly. There's a slew of new characters introduced in Breaking Dawn, none of whom were capitalized on the way they *could* have been. One of the major plot points in the first book is the Cullen clan's need to move around frequently. Every three or four years, the family moves before the people in the area become suspicious of their non-aging. But at the end of Breaking Dawn, no one seems even slightly interested in leaving Forks. Renesmee will end up with Jacob the Wolfboy, and Bella is perfectly happy that her father knows just enough about her "situation" to be able to visit and not be in danger of knowing their deepest, darkest secret. On the other hand, Bella laments that her mother doesn't need to know anything since she's "too fragile" to have any hint that her daughter's changed. I still have no idea what on earth they plan on doing if Bella's mother drops in for a surprise visit once she finds out from her ex-husband that they have a granddaughter...that her own daughter never bothered to tell her about.We eventually find out that Bella is referred to as "a shield" which is why Edward can't read her mind the way he can other peoples. She's trained to project her shield to protect others from psychic attacks by other vampires. Then there's the *thrilling* ending in which the Cullens and their various vampire friends unite against the Volturi. But there's no battle. After page after page of build-up, absolutely *nothing* happens. Bella, in a fit of intense rage, is able to project her shield to everyone in her group, and the Volturi, without any evidence of any law being broken, give up and leave. The end of the book is so nauseatingly happy it's amazing I was able to keep my gag reflux under control. Edward and Bella are together and they have their little girl child (who, conveniently, will be fully mature at the age of 7 years, then stop aging and be immortal). Oh, Renesmee is also the new object of Jacob the Wolfboy's affection (apparently, shapeshifters/werewolves "imprint" to find mates and Renesmee just happens to be the lucky imprintee). So after spending 3 1/2 books pining over Bella, Jacob's affection is rapidly shifted to her daughter. *That* was quick and easy clean up. Constant Bella worship, smarmy "gag me with a spoon" Hallmark moments, easy-outs in regards to tying up lose plot ends so everyone can be happy, an overuse of cliche's, and a complete deviation from character personalities. What do all of these things indicate? A book which was written for the express purpose of making more money. It's glaringly obvious. I could overlook it if it were a stand-alone story, but Meyer did a great disservice to her readers by sucking them into a story that started out fairly tolerable, then ending it with this crap.I "shuddered" and "grimaced" through the entire thing.