I don't know how to review this book. It wasn't the best thing I have ever read, but with my emotions all mixed up and my health not being as it should be right now, this book straight up made me cry for what I yearn for: love.Ever since I was little, I have fallen in love with the ideas of mermaids (or sirens, as some have called them). They are beautiful and mythical and quite honestly the root of my obsession of fantasy novels and movies. Anyone who knows me knows that, even though I am a poor swinner, I can't get enough of the siren folklore.So when Kiera Cass, the author of "The Selection" Series that I liked well enough, writes a book with the title "Sirens" I literally didn't even hestiate and ordered it off Amazon to keep and to hold forever. I didn't actually read it for months and months because I had so many other books to read. But with patiently waiting for Heir of Fire by Sarah J Maas, I decided to pick up this little 327 page book and I do not regret anything about it.Kahlen is a siren. The ocean is her mother. She has three sisters at one time and together they are silent until the ocean calls them to sink a ship for her. The reasoning behind sinking ships and killing hundreds of people a year is because the ocean has to be able to have some to save thousands. Kahlen and her sisters absolutely hate the fact that they take lives, but the ocean promises that they will forget her after their 100 years is up and they are free to live as humans again.Akinli runs into a mute-girl in the library and finds himself drawn to her even though he has never heard her voice. But she mysteriously vanishes after their first date until some months later when she washes up on the shore, upset and in a very fancy dress (which is strange since she is soaking wet).After some unfortunate events, Akinli and Kahlen both end up very, very sick: both emotionally and physically. What is to blame? You'll have to read that to find out.My heart hurt for not only these two characters, but for the sisters of Kahlen. For how can such a lovely ending be so brutal and cruel to my heart? I know that I am going through some things in real life over here, but... IDK this book was a short one in what I am used to reading but I absolutely adored it. I cry all the time in books and movies and... ever so I can't say that it is unusual but it felt different. It is not a fast paced book. It is not a deep thinking book. It is merely a story of a siren and her mother the ocean. If you need a break from your war-fighting, heart thumping books, this 327 paged book is for you. It's a slow burn for sure.I'm not one for romantic books and I still liked this book. I am so happy I bought and I am keeping this book.