Please do yourself 2 favors:1. Do not avoid this book simply because you hated Cass's The Selection series. The two are nothing, nothing, nothing alike. The characters, the world, the writing tone are all so very different. Sure, you may still dislike this one for any number of reasons, but if you're interested in the premise, don't judge it based on a totally separate book series.2. Do not avoid this book simply because mushy romances aren't your thing. Yes, there is a romance, and that's very much a big part of the story but there is also SO MUCH MORE. And it's actually more of a tragic tale that I expected.This is a story about many types of love. Sisterly love. Friendship. Parental love. Learning to love yourself. (Love for cake.) And yes, romantic love too. This is one of the best romances I've read in a long time, which is ironic because the love interest appears in less than a quarter of the book total, but what I really took away from this book was all the other kinds of love. Especially the parental love. The parent in this book is the Ocean. She is very much a character in this story and the way in which she loves her Siren daughters is so reminiscent of a mother trying to hold on to her growing children. I'm struggling with wording this next part (thanks brain), but I also want to point out that although this book in no way felt like it was dealing with religion, I got a sense of some religious symbolism. I believe Cass is Christian, so I wondered if maybe the Ocean was meant to be a personification (naturification?) of God. There are definitely many traits of the Ocean that aren't Biblical, but it was a parallel that I saw and it hit me on an emotional level. Any symbolism you may or may not personally see reflected in the Ocean aside, the way in which Cass brought to a life a character that in this world was a type of deity and creator full of undying and jealous love was simply astounding.There are a few more things I want readers to know about this story that make it really awesome.-The main characters are college age, which is refreshing.-The fantasy element of this world was VERY fleshed out. Siren mythology is not a backdrop, it's heavily involved in the story.-The love interest was a good guy. A very believable, kind guy. A nice break from the over abundance of bad boys in YA and NA.And to be fair, here are some things that might turn you off.-There is a heavy dose of instalove. I can hear most of you groaning. But this was the most convincing case of instalove I have ever seen and the reason for that comes down to the fact that these characters didn't spend every waking moment together with their feelings being clouded by being so wrapped up in each other. For the story being told here, it felt fitting.- I don't even have another point here. But having only one point looked weird. Hi.Overall, it's a simple and yet very powerful story that I think would appeal to readers young and old alike.