Other than dragons, a revenge story, and mostly 5 star reviews from my friends… I had no idea what to expect. Little did I know, I was reading a new all time favorite.The Rage of Dragons is an epic fantasy, unlike anything I’ve ever read. The gorgeous African influences, and jaw dropping world building, instantly caught my attention. Evan Winter wrote this so cinematically, and with so much depth and emotion, that you can’t help but fall in love and cheer for these amazing characters.“Improvement can only come through intentioned effort. Every day must be hard for you. The days without difficulty are the days you do not improve.”Tau (our main character) has to go down in history as one of the most driven and determined fictional characters ever written. This young man’s story is full of heart ache, but then again… how can your favorite characters claim revenge without loss and trauma? “He desired mastery more than he desired breath. It was that he wanted revenge more than he wanted to live.”I was constantly impressed by Tau’s focus, and it’s no surprise that I admired his sense of loyalty and intelligence. I love a character that fights with two blades, and battles against impossible odds.It did take me a while to understand and accept the caste system of lessers & nobles, and how different tribes referred to each other as “savages” and “heathens.” Typically these phrases fill me with rage, but I think that’s exactly why the author wrote it this way. The combination of the caste system and military privileges, were so crucial to this brutal story. I will always root for the underdog and hope for an uprising for the oppressed. How Tau fights, and instills hope, gave me full body chills (and probably a few tears, but shhh don’t tell anyone.) Naturally I adored how this world recognized the strength in women, as world leaders, heads of household, passing their familial names through the maternal bloodline, and as a society they praise the goddess, Ananthi.The training, and battle scenes have to be some of my favorite ever written! Tau‘s skill and sense of revenge, fuel the explosive energy of this extraordinary saga, which draws some of my favorite characters together (the chosen 5.)“By refusing to surrender, no matter how bad the chances, because as long as we fight, the outcome is not set. As long as we fight, there is a chance.”If you didn’t already think INCREDIBLE world building, an amazing magic system, fantastic characters, or an intense revenge saga were enough… there’s also a sweet love story! Oh, and vicious dragons. Truthfully, I could discuss the powerful elements in this book for days. With that being said, if this has been sitting on your TBR for a while, do yourself a favor and read this magnificent book. “Where we fight, the world burns!”