Re-read even more incredible than the first go round! The audiobook for Rage of Dragons is near perfection, and the voice-over actor gives a stunning interpretation with 'African' accent, that brings the realism to a crisp! My original thoughts below...5 Stars (Masterpiece)I was so blown away by the intensity, the action, the plot and characterization, the magic system and the GENIUS, behind The Rage of Dragons, that it has shot up as one of my favorite books of ALL TIMES!!! God, this book is so fucking good I don’t even know where to start! I’ve heard the buzz about ‘Rage’ from some online youtube reviews, and strong GR reviewers (shout out Petrik...as usual) and went full steam into it! I sampled the ‘audiobook’ version, and as soon as I heard the ‘African accent’ narration by the brilliant ‘Prentice Onayemi’ I was hooked! In the process of reading, I was so enthralled by the narrative and characters- that I went ahead and bought the kindle edition to support Evan Winter in this amazing freshman stellar debut! The Rage of Dragons is a crossbreed between Gladiator and Game of Thrones on steroids!! This may seem like a gimmick, but the story is so richly thick with drama, action and characterization, that it flies and sores high on its own merit! The African-inspired fantasy places the reader in the middle of a world where a civilization known as ‘Omehi’ are subdivided into casts of ‘nobles’ and gift-less citizens. Together, both factions are pooled together in a war against a much stronger enemy that has lasted for the last 200 years! The story centers on ‘Tau’, a young gift-less that has planned to escape, and leave a different life.Tau The prologue is an epically well written introduction- amongst the best I’ve ever read! After the first 20% , the narrative becomes unrelenting, unyielding, and highly addictive!Evan Winter masterfully blends epic fantasy elements with a richly inspired African- wartribe influence. It’s quite daunting how this story has all the elements that are so attractive to me: a coming of age story about a young warrior who was born without any ‘talents’ or ‘magical gifts’, yet has the perseverance and true-heart to fight to the death for what he believes! Winter is able to weave a story that integrates a ‘fighting’ school with epic duels, just like in ‘Gladiator’! We see characters that are rich in prose and description, and become organic by the conclusion of the narrative. ‘Tau’ has a small close group of ‘sword brothers’ that add so much to the story! I loved the relationship dynamics between Tau, his sword brothers as well as his love interest. The magic system is so well developed, and involves the few of the Omehi gifted entering an ‘outside’ world where they can draw power and summon unsurmountable ‘monsters’ and creatures to blend in the epic battles!  Oh… and we also have Dragons, lots of Dragons.Gifted controlling DragonsThe Rage of Dragons has clearly topped any book I’ve read since last years’ majestic ‘Sword of Keigen’ or ‘Recursion’. Here on the other hand, is the promise of another 2 stellar books that will carry and develop the storyline of such a strong and disturbed protagonist such as Tau. I would be remiss not to emphasize the brilliance of the voice-over actor Prentice Onayemi, who sleighs the story from beginning to end! His cadance, voice-over interpretations, African accent, adds so much realism to the story, that I can’t recommend it enough! The Rage of Dragons is a masterpiece of epic-fantasy storytelling! Elements of revenge, war, epic duels, undying and unsuspecting friendships and a love affair makes this one of my favorite books of all times. 5 Stars!!