Only a Monster is a fun start to a new fantasy series, leading the reader through a London where monsters roam the streets, stealing time from humans. I really enjoyed the magic system, although time travel isn’t really my thing. I usually end up thinking too much about the logistics and the changes the characters are making to the timeline. Here, there was a clear set of rules and an almost sentient timeline that ensured that there were no major changes caused by the monsters’ jaunts through time which I appreciated. I also enjoyed the moral struggle Joan goes through once she realises how monsters can travel — by stealing time from humans. This led into conversations about morality, what it means to be a monster and how heroes are forged which I found really interesting.The dynamics between the different monster families were fun and I loved how this played into our main characters’ personalities and perceptions of the others. This book set up some really intriguing politics of this world that I hope will be further explored in the sequel. I enjoyed our main group of characters: Joan; her cousin, Ruth and Aaron, a monster from another family. I also really liked the queer romance that was introduced towards the end of the book, and found myself rooting for those characters and their relationship.As I sit to write my review a few days after finishing this book, I have to say that I am struggling to remember what actually happened. Which I think is the main reason this book isn’t getting a higher rating from me — it wasn't memorable. It didn’t grip me and refuse to let me go. In fact, it took me a long time to read it as I just wasn’t motivated to pick it up. It was good but not great and hasn’t hooked me enough to make me want to continue the series.What I was most looking forward to about this book was the romance. I wanted a forbidden romance between monster and monster hunter that drove the plot and characters forward and had me on the edge of my seat. What I got seemed almost half hearted and underdeveloped. There was no chemistry between the main pairing and after the big reveal of their identities at the beginning, there were no more romance centred scenes until near the end when our main character finally remembered that she was meant to have feelings for him. Although, I will say that that scene was really well written and fun to read. It made for an impressive ending. In fact, there was much more chemistry and a compelling relationship between Joan and Aaron and I wonder if that will be explored more in the sequel.Overall, Only a Monster was a fun read with an interesting magic system that explored morality and heroes vs villains. However, I expected more from it, especially from the romance that dominated the marketing of the book.I also talk about books here: youtube | instagram | twitter *eARC received in exchange for an honest review via Netgalley*