Whoa! May I announce you a big, a fresh, exciting start of unique fantasy trilogy? A special story makes you root for monsters against humans! Oh my goodness, I devoured each chapter and I don’t know how I can wait at least whole year for a sequel!Joan at age of 16, has no idea what her family keeps hiding from her till she touches an old man and blackouts, losing hours from her life.  Her gran confirms what she’s told her when she’s a little girl who wanted to be Superman: she cannot be hero: being hero means denying her true nature: she’s a monster. Only thing she wanted was having breakfast date with the charming and nerdy boy Nick she has longtime crush for who is also her colleague she’s worked at Holland House. When she black outs, she misses her date and when she goes back to museum to make an explanation to him, her entire world changes in the very same day. First the museum gets surrounded from the monsters from Oliver family: the arc enemies of her Hunt family. They intend to kill her and Nick but at the last minute Nick strikes back and kills everyone! Joan finds out from a hard way that there are more dangerous things than rival monsters called monster hunters leading by hero! And unfortunately Nick she adored for a long time is the leader of hunters and destined to kill Joan’s entire family, coming for her to finish his business! Joan finds an ally: youngest child of Oliver family: Aaron who didn’t stop his father to try killing her. First rule of being monster is touching a humans’ neck and stealing days or years from their lives to teleport yourself to another timeline! Now as monster hunters lurking around to kill Joan and Aaron who survived from monster massacre, finding their ways to travel in time. Joan’s mission is going back in time to stop the massacre but she doesn’t have any time there’s a king at the monster court who likes to write the timeline as he pleases.How far she can risk to save her family? How far she put herself in danger to confront with Nick the boy she fell in love even though they are enemies and their love story is doomed to fail? How far she push herself to bring out the secret power she has? I loved the mysterious world building. I’m looking forward to meet more monster families. I loved the love triangle ( I’m on team Aaron) I loved the jaw dropping twist near the end! I cannot wait to read the sequel! This is freaking good and I’m so sure it’s gonna get even better!