4.25 stars"None of them—including Catherine—realizes that the rumor isn't inaccurate, only understated. I've committed murder exactly one hundred and fifty-eight times in twelve months. My tally now grows almost every night."Dark heroine, dark heroine, DARK HEROINE.I mentioned I've been really into dastardly characters these days and The Falconer was perfect. It's a story of revenge, of breaking free of societal constraints and embracing inner strength.The atmospheric setting of Victorian London hits you like a wrecking ball. I study a a lot of Victorian literature in school and to read it during my downtime was a struggle at first, but I really got into it. The steampunk aspect was a nice touch and I can fully imagine Victorians in an alternative universe inventing antique flying contraptions and bombs constructed of cogs and oil. Aileana's growing awareness of the unequal position of her gender is fabulous."In what way could keeping me in ignorance be construed as protection?" I straighten a piece of wire to add to the fire-starter. "God spare me from such protection, especially when it involves safeguarding my poor feminine sensibilities from life-saving information."I adored the hell out of her. She's smart and resourceful and isn't above using what's at hand to complete her task."My legs pump harder and I shove Kiaran in front of me. I throw myself at him, rolling us so his indestructible body protects me from the direct blast."She can get pretty angsty, but it's to be expected. She watch her mom die, man. I never did get the fandom's complaints over Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. What do you expect, for them to clap their hands and knit a commemorative tapestry? About the similarities to the the Fever series by Karen Marie Moning, I can see them and acknowledge them, but it doesn't bother me at all. Be aware that I'm not the biggest fan of Mac and Barrons. I get why passionate fans would be pissed. For me, it's more good-concept-poor-execution. Barrons is a secretive, violent ass, the plot dragged, and Mac's overuse of the term "southern belle" got on my nerves. It's not her overt femininity that annoys me (and I'd gladly throat-punch anyone who turns their nose up at heroines who like pink and clothes); it's everything else. The Falconer took a similar concept and spun it into something I loved. We get enough references to Aileana's past life to piece together the transition from "Angel of the House" to steel-hearted killer. There's no love triangle either. It could've happened. It was a thread from happening. But Elizabeth May decided to give the standard formula a manicured middle finger and transform it into a platonic relationship. Gavin is such a sweetheart. He's this ordinary guy who got sucked into the fey-killing business and tries to help the best he can, even though he doesn't want to, because that's what decent folk do. He even asks Ailaena's hand in marriage—at the cost of his own happiness and safety—to save her reputation and I just *dies*.  I almost want there to be a love triangle if it wouldn't ruin his and Aileana's hilarious conversations.“For heaven’s sake,” I say, “will you please sip the tea so I don’t have to pour you another cup every five minutes?”“We’re facing an apocalypse,” he replies. “There is not enough tea in the world to calm me.” Beautiful.My review of The Vanishing ThroneMy review of The Fallen Kingdom