AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!  O.M.G  WHAT THE HELL DID I JUST READ??? IT WAS...  AILEANA THE MAIN CHARACTER WAS SO BAD ASS AWESOME!!  ME THROWING A FIT UNTIL BOOK TWO RELEASES!  ~~~~~~EDIT REVIEW~~~~~~  5 Stars THE FALCONER was PHENOMENAL!!! From it's Scotland lure, to it's vengeance and murder, to it's THRILLING, action-packed adventure, and heart-pounding, slow burning romance, that sent heat rising, and toes curling, THE FALCONER was exceptional, and did NOT disappoint!!!THE FALCONER is indescribably AWESOME!!! I can pretty much say that I loved just about everything about this book. I listened to most of it on audio, but also read some from the physical book. But honestly, I think I preferred listening to it rather then reading it. The narration was flawless, and one of the best I've come across in a long time.The characters were developed and had all the character traits I love. Aileana was broken and determined, fierce and deadly, but still capable of love and compassion. She was able to play her part to the T: Lady by day, elegant and noble, hunter my night, killer and deadly. And she was soooo good at it. Even though they both started to bleed into each other by the end of the book, she still played her part regardless of opinions. She was the perfect character for this book. I loved Aileana and can't wait to see how much more deadly and dangerous she becomes to her enemies in book two.And Aileana's mentor, and close but distant friend, Kiaran McKay was the perfect example of AWESOME!!! Ruthless and cunning, dark and dangerous, deadly, but loyal to his cause, and determined to right his many wrongs. He was the perfect mentor for Aileana—smart, skilled, strong, powerful, deadly, and pushed her to the breaking to teach her her weaknesses. And he was so dam sexy at doing it!!!The world-building was unique and VERY well done. I loved the historical and Scotland background, intertwined with dark and dangerous faery's tearing the city apart. I thought the elegant lady by day and huntress killer by night was brilliant, and tied into the rest of the plot with ease and grace. It was just phenomenal!!! I loved the way it was done, written and narrated!! Yup, it's safe to say I pretty much loved everything about this novel and characters!!! THE PLOT  Heiress... Debutant... Murderer... Aileana Kameron is a Lady by day, and a killer by night... She's been that way since last year, when her mother was murdered, torn to shreds and had her heart ripped from her chest right in front of her. But the person, or should I say thing, that killed her mother wasn't even human at all. She ordinarily wouldn't be able to see them, the predators preying on the weak, but she was wearing the thistle—A plant that gives humans the abilities to see their predators coming. And the predator that she seen that unforgettable night, was more terrifying and deadly, then anything she's ever laid her eyes on. But that was just the beginning for Aileana, aka Kam...They hunt weak humans, they devour their energy and kill them after their sucked dry. They are in all forms and shape, they are strong and mighty, they are imprisoned under the city, and they are breaking free little by little.They will either end the human race, or imprison them all. They are dangerous and deadly, and have many different strengths, and they are preparing to rise up and rule again, and if not stopped, they will defeat and conquer, and all will be lost to the human race. They are called Faerys, and they are coming....Only one can save the human race from death and imprisonment, and she is the last of her kind, the last remaining Falconer with the power to stop them. But she is only one against many, she is just learning and acquainting herself with her capabilities, she has yet to come into the ultimate power of a Falconer, but she will give her life to save them all. She is a hunter, the hunted, a predator, the prey, a killer, the rescuer, unstoppable, the defeat-able, she is lady Aileana, last Falconer and Scotland's only hope, and she will rise up and fight for them all...Dark, dangerous and deadly—all my favorite qualities in a book, and THE FALCONER had them all and MORE!!!! The dark essence and deadly demeanor that THE FALCONER portrays is precise and flawless. I can not even come close in expressing the full depth of my love for this book. And that ending was strait TORTURE!!! It should really be freaking illegal to end a book like that, SERIOUSLY!!!! ;)Overall, THE FALCONER is one of the best fantasies I've read this year, and it will definitely be going on my favorites shelf where it will stay. I loved everything about this world; from the elegant, yet rough writing, to the superb acting of the narration, it was all just flawless and addicting, and totally time worthy. I would HIGHLY recommend this novel/series to ALL fantasy and paranormal fans out there!!! Their really is NO WAY it could possibly disappoint!!! THREE WORDS:  READ. . . IT. . . NOW. . .