*Edit: 5/9/17 Screw it, I'm bumping it up to 4.5 stars. ----3.5 stars! This books was a lot of fun. I doubt it's anything new, but it was fun and I enjoyed reading this so much. When I saw the words "murder" and "covered in blood" from the first page, I knew I was going to love this. I binge read this even though it was frigging 12 p.m and I had to sleep. But forget sleep when you have this book. This book isn't the best thing in the world and I had a lot of problems with it, but it's still a good read. Aileana Kameron aka Kam was covered in her mother's blood the night her mother was murdered. Rumors are spread saying that Kam was the one who murdered her mother and because of that she has a tough relationship with her father and pretty much everyone else. What everyone doesn't know is that it was a faery that murdered Kam's mother and now Kam, also a gifted Falconer (peeps who have the gift to kill faeries) hunts and kills faeries who murder innocent humans. She's also out for revenge to hunt down and kill the faerie who killed her mom.→My biggest problem with this book is the lack of world building. There is not much information about the faeries and pixies. Terms like sithichean, seilgflur, daoinesith, and many more words are just thrown in the story and not explained. I think these were some of the faerie breeds, but they aren't described and explained and I was left clueless most of the time about the story and world building. There's also no explaining where the faerie's came from, how the breed of Falconer's was born and much more spoiler-y information. →The romance: This is a spoiler about the romance. At first, I though the romance was going to be a love triangle between Gavin and Kiaran. Gavin is a Seer (another term that isn't really explained well) and Kiaran is some breed of faerie or something that trains Kam to fight the evil faeries. Gavin was Kam's childhood lover and was away for 2 years, but then returns and is forced to marry Kam when her reputation is put in danger. I actually liked Gavin, but loved Kiaran more and imagine my screaming when Kam and Kiaran end up together AND KISS AT THE END AHHH. →Also, that ending was very abrupt and left loose. I feel like the author just quickly crammed that in. It wasn't a well done ending and it happened so out of nowhere and quickly that I was left confused and had to reread like 3 times to understand what was going on. ◇Kam is a likeable MC and I enjoyed her character, though she wasn't really developed and I would have liked a little more character development. The characters are sort of boring and bland except for Kiaran. I love him so :))*Just something I have to say about the steampunk part of this book. Please correct me if I'm wrong though!➖I know this is steampunk/historical and it's a time period where they are discovering technology and blah blah blah, but did anyone notice the part about the earplugs towards the end? When SPOILER, Kam gave Kiaran earplugs, but there is no mentioning of how they were invented and I don't remeber reading about cellphones or any other electronic device that uses earplugs. It was so thrown out of nowhere and I forgot to mention it in my review before. Where did those earplugs come from❓❓❓❓ Did I miss something???Overall, it was a fast paced, fun, and interesting read and I cannot wait to get my hands on the next book. I received an arc in exchange for an honest review via Netgalley.