“Aoram dhuit,” he breathes. “I will worship thee.”I was only a few pages into this book when I knew it was going to become a part of me. The Falconer was one of those stories you pick up on a whim one day that ends up defining you. These books aren’t always the ones with the most outstanding prose, characters, or themes, but they’re the ones that leave you desperate and aching for something you can’t name. They strip something you always thought was a vital part of your genetic makeup, and they become a fundamental part of a new version of yourself. I imagine that the next person who picks this book up will forget about it in a few days, but I left pieces of myself in between those pages, and I think these words are going to remain with me for years to come. The friendships and the romance and the raw grief in this book spoke to my soul in ways I can’t stop failing to put into words. It made my soul ache, my blood pump, and my heart soar. This was a glorious beginning to what I assume is a trilogy that’s going to help define this decade in my eyes. The Falconer opens in Edinburgh in the late-19th century where our main character, Lady Aileana Kameron, is leading a double life: the only daughter of the Marquess of Douglas by day, and a huntress who chases down and slaughters fae who prey on innocent lives at night. Aileana is a Falconer, the last in a line of female warriors born with a gift for hunting and killing fae, and she is the last hope of preventing a powerful faery population from massacring all of humanity. She’s been aided for the past year by her mysterious mentor, Kiaran, whose promise to help her destroy the faery who killed her mother drives Aileana’s every choice. Together, the two of them are going to have to work together to prevent the end of civilisation – but they’ll have to stop trying to kill each other first.Elizabeth May has such a way with words, and she has woven a gorgeous tale full of adventure, magic, and romance. For a few hours, I experienced myself hunting fae amidst the streets of Victorian, steampunk Edinburgh, and I have never wanted to visit a city more than I did this one. I was constantly entranced whenever some new, unexpected aspect of this strange yet whole familiar world was unveiled, and I truly believe its dark fantasy at its best. I cannot wait to see what else May has in store for us in this trilogy!The myths that are central to this story only added to the heady, otherworldly atmosphere contained in this glorious tale, and I have to take a moment to praise Elizabeth May for managing to place her own, unique spin on these legends while still making me feel like I’d just peeled open the pages of an ancient, leather-bound tome on folklore that’s been passed down through a family for generations. The faeries in this world are immortal, deadly creatures whose descriptions made my blood run cold. I never once got the feeling that these monstrous beings would drop to their knees and declare me their mate. The first faery we meet, a Revenant, both bewitched and terrified me, and the imagery of cloying, decaying matter and a rancid, earthy scent employed by May only heightened the intensity of our first battle with Aileana. The faeries she fights throughout the Falconer are the kind the Celtic used to warn their children about under the cover of darkness– they will smile and charm and preen at you until you are close enough for them to tear out your throat with their teeth and claws. They were definitely one of my favourite parts of this story, and I’m not ashamed to say I had to keep the closet door shut for a little while after I finished reading this book. “Sometimes the memories we cling hardest to are the ones that hurt us the most.”The characters in this story are at the heart of my devotion, and they feel like flesh-and-blood people, not writing on a page. I can’t begin to describe how much they mean to me, especially Aileana. After she witnesses the gruesome murder of her mother at the hands of a faery, she no longer lives for tea parties or assemblies or polite conversations accompanied by fake smiles, but instead for the chase, and for the kill. Aileana is such a wonderful character – complex and rife with rage and despair. I enjoyed the chapters where she began to grow into someone who is assertive and confident in her choices and abilities, and I was cheering her along all the way. She’s slowly inched her way up my list of favourite heroines, and I am so grateful to have her on my shelf whenever I need her. Kiaran Mackay holds such a special place in my heart, and I don’t think I’m ever going to find another love interest who can compare to my beloved faery warrior. Because he’s someone who doesn’t offer trust and affection easily to other people, Kiaran feels like an enigma when we first meet him. However, as he and Aileana are forced closer together, we start to see a more vulnerable, fractured side of him that he’s struggling to keep contained. He can’t help how much he cares about Aileana, but he’s afraid he’ll lose her like he lost his first love, and he doesn’t want to become trapped by his grief for a second time. The angst and yearning between these two is exquisite, and I haven’t been this desperate for two characters to end up together in a long time. When I think of The Falconer, I think of the moments of bickering, sincerity, and gentleness between these two, and I have a feeling this will quickly become one of my favourite slow-burn romances.“His lips curved into a smile that promised so many things I’d rather not contemplate.”I have to take a moment to talk about the final chapter and how even thinking about it right now makes my heart clench and my eyes water. I found myself frantically scrambling over the last few pages, convinced that no author would be cruel enough to leave her readers on such an agonising, shocking ending. But, oh boy, let me tell you – I could not have been more wrong. I’m in agony, and the fact that I don’t have the sequel in my hands right now physically pains me. I can’t wait a week for it to arrive! I think I might have to use this time to re-read the kinder parts of this book because I’m pretty sure the only cure for my broken heart is a little more of the brooding, snarling Kiaran and his secret heart of gold. If you want to save yourself a lot of pain, make sure you have The Vanishing Throne on hand when you finish this one. You’re going to need it. Overall, this is a splendidly written and mesmerising adventure that’ll keep you entertained and enthralled until the very last page. The Falconer is one of the best books I’ve read this year, and I think that once the dust has settled and I’ve written the final few words of this review, I might decide that it’s one of my favourite books of all time. I am so glad that I couldn’t sleep one night and I decided to pick up this underappreciated, hidden gem because I’ve found a book that will remain a part of me for the rest of my life. This story has left me breathless, and I hope it’ll do the same to you. “I'm like him. I'm a monster, too.”