*** 4.44 ***A buddy read with the Fantasy Buddy Reads Group, because we love the Epics!!!And even though it barely reached 350 pages, this gem is a true Epic! It was written in the 80's and has some of the marks of its time, which coming from me is a complement, of course, being a product of the generation which came to age at that time. I find it interesting, that the books I love most, are always somehow connected with war. The authors do a great job painting the fear, loss, and horror with their words, and despite creating heroes who are shaped by the war experiences, the books are never pro-war... That is not to say they are anti-war either. However, they usually promote honor, as well as question the reasons for why humanity finds so many reasons to engage in this awful, violent, and mostly permanent solution to problems which could be dealt with in many other, more peaceful ways... 
"...“Never violate a woman, nor harm a child. Do not lie, cheat or steal. These things are for lesser men. Protect the weak against the evil strong. And never allow thoughts of gain to lead you into the pursuit of evil. Never back away from an enemy. Either fight or surrender. It is not enough to say I will not be evil. Evil must be fought wherever it is found.”The Iron Code”..."
Beautiful words, but how many could say they were able to follow them? None of us are perfect and the best we can do is to try our best. One of those who has always tried his best and had some success with it is the now aging Druss, Captain of the Axe, the one called The Legend. He is a warrior of renown, the legends told of him and the songs sang have lit the spark for glory in many of children and young people's lives. Many have followed in his footsteps because of listening to his adventures and taken up the sword or axe in pale imitation of him. Most of them have found death and no songs have been written in their honor, but people tend to think of the heroes and their deeds as separate from the pain and ugliness by which they are defined.
"...“Only a fool loves war,” said Calvar, “or a man who has never seen it. The trouble is that the survivors forget about the horrors and remember only the battle lust. They pass on that memory, and other men hunger for it.”..."
Druss is called upon to inspire the soldiers and fight another last impossible to win battle, charged with holding the Dros Delnoch pass, until the Nadir Horde are repelled or every last soldier is dead. Our reluctant hero takes on the task, seeking a date with his own Death. We also have the funny, charming and very cowardly Rek, who would love to spend his life far away from any military conflict, eating drinking and keeping female company. He has a staggering fear of combat and sees this as his biggest failure. However, circumstances and a woman, contrive to take him to the middle of the biggest battle of recent times, and he has to make some hard choices. 
"...“By nature of definition only the coward is capable of the highest heroism”..."

"...“A cynic by experience, a romantic by inclination and now a hero by necessity.”..."
The story is about the human condition when faced with the hardest times they could possibly face. It is about what makes humans human and the fears we all live with, despite of the way others perceive us. I was very moved by some parts, others made me think of why some of us, when gone trough something rough, chose to take the path of light or darkness, are able to pick themselves up, or wallow in depression for the rest of their lives... It also made me think of how us, the regular folks, have to live with the consequences of the whims and changing moods of our leaders, who are not afraid to put our lives in danger, while quick to condemn any possible slight against their ego... But, it has be thus since the beginning of times, I guess nothing really changes, even in our Fantasy...
"...“And what is a man? He is someone who rises when life has knocked him down. He is someone who raises his fist to heaven when a storm has ruined his crop--and then plants again. And again. A man remains unbroken by the savage twists of fate.That man may never win. But when he sees himself reflected, he can be proud of what he sees. For low he may be in the present scheme of things: peasant, serf, or dispossessed. But he is unconquerable”..."
I will highly recommend this book and wish you enjoy the ride!!! I wish you all Happy Reading and many more Wonderful Books to come!!!