In this 7th, wonderful volume, Dream and Delirium go on a road trip of sorts. As the readers know by now, there has been at least one more sibling to The Elders, who gave up his responsibilities some hundreds of years ago. Here, we find out it was Destruction.Apparently, he was especially close with Delight/Delirium and, perhaps surprisingly - but then again, not really - Despair. Interestingly enough, there have been implications about Despair that have me fascinated.Anyway, they go on a quest to find their hidden brother and thus encounter a number of other old beings. Not exactly immortal and not all of them gods (anymore), but definitely special creatures.The center of the tale, however, is family. Not just the lost brother but also Dream's son. And duty. The duty of a friend, the duty of family, the duty of a lover, the duty of servants, the duty to one's occupation. It's amazing to see that Gaiman and his co-workers paid as much attention to detail to the central characters in the story as to the small ones (you know, the side and background characters).I liked the theme of loyalty and I especially liked that we got a deeper glimpse at Dream and his siblings, their past and, thus, also their future. My favourite aspect of this volume, though, was Barnabas! :DMy highlight (apart from the aforementioned companion) was Dream and Delirium speaking to Destruction about existence - showcasing Gaiman's mastery with words as it was deep and powerful and true and yet also whimsical.What had me laughing out loud was Destruction's description of Dream's son, which was a description of Dream himself (one I wholeheartedly agree with): "A romantic fool. Self-pitying. But with a certain amount of personal charm." BWAHAHAHAHAHA!Interestingly, there was some downright gorgeous artwork in some of the panels that stood in stark contrast with the rest. Can't exactly say why the artist chose to do that because it didn't always fit with the tale or character at that moment, but I did appreciate it nonetheless. The rest was as bonkers as ever but since we were travelling with Delirium it fit better than ever.Maybe not my favourite volume but close.