Does anyone really, truly love to learn as much as Matilda? Books gave Matilda a hopeful and comforting message: You are not alone.She is such an inspiration - and not only because of the freaky telekinetics. When I first read this book as a fifth grader, I absolutely connected with her. FINALLY! someone who likes to read as much as me! I would spend hours at the library with my mother, steadily reading my way through a pack of books. It was my dream to say, “I'm wondering what to read next." Matilda said. "I've finished all the children's books.”  Unfortunately, I never got the chance but I firmly maintain that if my mother took me to a (significantly) smaller library then I (maybe) could've said Matilda's signature line.Two, very important things:1) Matilda belongs to an absolutely terrible family. Wholly and truly despicable.  Her father cheats people out of their money, her mother is downright nasty and her older brother complaisantly watches as she's harassed.2) Matilda is an absolute genius.She began reading at the age of three and hadn't stopped since. Every time she showed the least bit of exceptional talent, her family would maliciously shoot her down.  She finds solace in books and in a few rather clever pranks on her folks.When Matilda is old enough, she is sent to primary school, in Miss Honey's class. She immediately becomes attached and adores school even more than the library. When Mrs. Trunchbull - the resident evil Headmistress  - picks on Matilda's class, Matilda soon discovers several extremely rare and eccentric talents that will knock Mrs. Trunchbull off her feet.This was wholly and endearingly charming. So many wonderful memories were relived during this reread - and wow. They certainly didn't censor kids books back then!Audiobook CommentsNarrated by Kate Winslet - absolutely stunning. I can only imagine what her face looked like when she used the "Trunchbull" voice. If you're itching for a reread - definitely pick up the audio!!YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads