2.5“I don’t need made-up strength. I’m strong enough on my own—me, Meira, no magic or conduit or anything.”How is it then that you don't feel truly fulfilled until you find out that you after all ARE the special snowflake we all knew since page one you'd end up being? I hate this kind of plot development. The main character spends the entire story trying to find in him/herself a reason to feel important on his own, by virtue only of his spiritual or whatever strength, and then it turns out that all this internal struggle was totally unnecessary because -oh, I'm a friggin' queen and the magic you've been looking for in the past sixteen damn years it's in me because I AM THAT SPESHAL. Yay.It makes no sense, why do authors not get it? It wouldn't seem so ridiculous if the story wheeled on the 'peculiarity' of the protagonist since the beginning. At least be honest about what you want your story to be about. I in the first place love fantasy stories featuring a protagonist with astonishing abilities, but I can't help feeling pissed off when all his/her attempts to be strong and meaningful just for who (s)he is are frustrated by the special snowflake syndrome.Of course there are some cases in which this situation is well-handled. This is not one of those cases. I hated how Meira (the MC) remarks that she feel like she managed to get Sir's (the man who raised her) attention only when she finds out what she finds out. Sir knew who she was since before, so he's always held her dear, of course, but the impression we get is that this poor girl was treated like a dirty rug for her whole life until she couldn't be treated like the queen she's meant to be in broad daylight. I find this offensive and disrespectful and I don't even want to think about what kind of moral it, purposefully or not, conveys.The only good thing I can say about the plot is that it's really fast-paced and so, if nothing, you don't have to add boredom to the idiocy and the banalities you already have to stand. For one thing, I don't get why Mather and Meira had to be kept in the dark about their own identities. Why not tell them that the real boy-king is still alive but hidden somewhere else? Why let poor Mather think he's the king, why put all these responsibilities and fears on his shoulders just to come up then with 'sorry, it's a joke, Meira gets the crown'? It's just me or this thing is unbelievably cruel and tactless? I hope the next book will be about Mather's revenge. Despite how flat and flimsy his character is, he still deserves it.But then again, the whole story if filled to the brim with nonsensical escamotages like this, and I don't really want to go on like forever. I'll mention just another one and then I'll stop, I swear: when Theron deliberately walks into Spring's hands in order to push his father to react. I didn't know whether to cry or laugh. You doomed yourself to death on the belief that your heartless, horrible excuse of a father will move his army, thing that he never agreed to do, to get you back? And I thought you were intelligent and hot.The magic system is one of the reasons I decided to read the book, because I'd heard it was really good, but then it proved to be a big meh. Not original, not convincing, not compelling, even confusing for lack of explanations. It is repeated hundreds and hundreds of time that the Conduits work only when they are on the lands they are tied to, and that they are tied to a bloodline and a gender, and that their power extends only to the citizens of the country they belong to. Fine. How does it work, exactly? It suffices to be born within the borders of that country or the whole thing is blood-related? And if it is blood-related, does this mean that in thousands of years (not my conjecture, Meira's words) the various peoples that live in this world have never mingled? Sorry, but I can't believe that. Too, far too simplistic. Unless the book provides me with a rational explanation, which it didn't.And at last (I know you were waiting for this) the love-triangle. Know that I am sighing. Repeatedly. In discouragement.The truly sad thing is that without that horrible, embarrassing, let's-see-who-can-pee-further fighting scene it could have been even enjoyable. It's not as if Mather and Theron are intolerable. Mather, as I said, is annoyingly flat, but he's kind of fine, and Theron is absolutely likeable, although I stay firm in my opinion that insta-love must be declared illegal, unless you are Marie Lu. If you are Marie Lu you can do whatever you want and still make it make sense (I don't even know if this sentence is grammatically correct). Now, will I continue the series? Honestly, I don't know. I've heard Raasch made a mess with the second book and I don't know if it's worth the torture. I guess I'll see.