4 Snow Above! ★'s “Even the strongest blizzards start with a single snowflake.”“Holding on to some part of your past even if it means also holding on to the pain of never again having it. That pain is less horrible than the pain of forgetting.” *Some minor spoilers may ensue*Reread <3This is my second time reading "Snow Like Ashes" and though it does starts out slow, once I get to a certain part, I'm hooked! I have a hard time putting this book down. It's a real page turner ;)!! I was very intrigued by this world Sara Raasch has created. I love magic... Magic is everything!! I really enjoy the story-line, the world-building, the writing style and of course the characters are amazing. They are easy to relate to and falling for them is effortless. Though the twists and turns throughout are pretty predictable, it is still so wonderfully addicting :D I like that the source of their magic comes from conduits. There are a total of eight. Witch include a- Locket, Staff, Cuff, Ring, Dagger, Ax(e), Crown and Shield. There are four Season Kingdoms and four Rhythm Kingdoms. All of which have long since been prejudiced towards one another. I also love that the people resemble the Season/Rhythm in-witch they come from. For example: Winterians have white hair, very pale skin, and bright blue eyes. Spring have blond hair, green eyes, and skin a little darker than Winterians. Summerians have hair red as fire, skin a creamy tan and eyes the color of liquid brown. Autumnians are copper-skinned, black hair and vibrant blue eyes. Cordellans usually have golden brown hair, brown eyes and light skin, though not as pale as Winterians, etc...I love strong, fearless, bad-ass heroines and I got that with Meira. She's just so brave and very determined. And will do whats necessary to help free the Winterians form slavery, take back Winter and bring them home. She's gonna have a long road ahead of her. Good thing she has Mather the "future king" of Winter. Mather is confident, strong, great at combat, attractive and a really great guy. He's also Meira's best and closest friend. They grew up together, trained together, got into trouble together and both have feelings for one another ;) And then you have Theron the prince of Cordell. He's very sweet, attractive, always hits his mark, though, his people respect him and Theron and Meira are to be married. So if you despise love triangles this may not be for you! But for the record, I'm Team♥MATHER!!! Always & forever :D Honestly though, I really enjoyed all the characters- Sir, Alysson, Dendera, Finn, Greer, Nessa, Conall, Garrigan, they are all fantastic!If you have not had the chance to read this, I recommend that you do A-SAP! “Sometimes placing our belief in something bigger than ourselves helps us get to a point where we can be enough on our own, magic or no magic.” “I’m Hannah’s daughter. I’m Winter’s conduit. I’m a warrior, a soldier, a lady, a queen, and most of all, as I plunge across the snowfield toward Jannuari’s silent ruin, I’m Meira.”