I have just lost the will to live. Have spent two hours writing a review of this brilliant book and then saved it but somehow Goodreads managed to lose it . Will probably kill someone if i sit here any longer so am off to the gym to do something sweaty, noisy and pointless and maybe will try again later. Very f***ing annoyed. Bye for now....................its a brilliant book by the way. I hate the 21st Century sometimes'Your life must be an open city, with all sorts of ways to wander in''All the secrets in the world worth knowing are hiding in plain sight'.'There is no immortality that is not built on friendship'. For me these three quotations sum up this madcap book. They are the foundation stones on which the whole fabulous edifice is grounded. Fabulous in every way imaginable.'There is no immortality that is not built on friendship' It is, put simply, the story of a young bloke, Clay Jannon, growing in knowledge of himself through his relationships. Well actually, he is a dude . This word appears to be one of Sloan's favourite ways of describing people and I have said somewhere else that I love this word and all the associations it has in my mind with cool and laid back and being part of an 'in-crowd'. However, in my case, if to be a dude was ever on offer i did not notice and so here i have one of those great moments of imagining myself in amidst this eclectic group of friends. A great piece of middle aged escapism. Anyway this 'dude', having lost his job as a website designer, stumbles across a bookshop in which he gains a shaky foothold and then begins to realize there is far more to its dusty and vertigo inducing bookshelves then first he thought.Sloan's characterization of the different relationships between the main characters is lovely. Their interaction is really believable and the gradual deepening of the various frienships is a joy to behold.'All the secrets in the world worth knowing are hiding in plain sight' Our hero begins to ask himself questions as he settles deeper into this wonderful shop. 'What are all these books for, couched as they are, in a seemingly pointless and meaningless mixture of letters and numbers?'. 'What are these bunch of eccentric oddbods who flit in and out at all hours grabbing first one book and then another excitedly when none of the books seem to bear any relationship to each other and none seem to mean anything?' He begins to realize there is a quest for something momentous but what it is, he is unsure. It is the search for the solving of this underlying mystery at the heart of the bookshop which is the fascinating triumph for Sloan.Computers, Ancient Printing Presses, Secret Societies and mysterious hidden buildings, sinister, shadowy rumours and theories move and revolve around each other to create an intriguing story which moves back and forth across history cleverly showing the essential truth of the little aphorism quoted above. However it is the fact that the truth of this quotation stretches beyond the book and out into my mind which i found fascinating. What goes unnoticed to me? What truths do i ignore or misunderstand or, more likely, take for granted and dismiss?Sloan has a great imagination. Two little examples of the world he creates; He presents us with a system of storage of information on the web which, in its complicated and far-reaching stretch, seems totally believable and he describes an enormous warehouse in which all discarded and overlooked treasures are kept safely and securely awaiting reclamation or just abandonment. In this warehouse, enormous beyond imagining, the different storage cases and shelves move around via computer programmes as if with a mind of their own as people go to claim or borrow them. Both these creations were so well presented that i felt they must have already existed, they must have been things Sloan was simply describing from reality. His Quidditch if you will, so real that it must already exist somewhere. This is the sign of an excellent imagination and a first rate writer .There is one small little scene in the warehouse involving Clay and a portrait...when you read the book you will know exactly the scene I mean and it made me smile, broadly. That is another strength of Sloan's book, it is not thigh slappingly funny, and I did see Tom Cruise do that very thing on an interview show once so I know there are some idiots who actually do that, no Sloan's book is gently amusing. His dialogue, his descriptions and his plot, all these things make you smile and that can never be bad.There is something for book lovers here and for computer geeks and technophiles, for health freaks and conspiracy theorists and for code breakers and suspense fans. Is there much for those of a love persuasion ?.....Well there is the gentlest fragrance of a romance or two to keep you wondering, there is a heavy musk of testosterone induced hetero bro-mance, there is the incense laden scent of disciple and master and the underlying whiff of hero worship and, of course, the over-riding odour of book-adoration but wherever the love comes from Sloan is saying something of real significance it seems to me.'Your life must be an open city, with all sorts of ways to wander in'Don't block off those exits or entrances that you think are unusable or defunct. You never know who will enter your life and by which by-way. Any locked door or no entry sign or keep out marker does not protect but impoverishes. Jannon comes to realize that more and more and so do the people with whom he comes into contact. This is, as others have said before, a book of friendship but it is friendship in a myriad of forms. My apologies to Mr Sloan for this paltry attempt at review. The one I toiled over this morning, the one that got away...it was so much bigger and better...lolSeriously though, I loved this book but the GR demon who ate the last review ate a bit of my soul at the same time and I could not bring myself to launch in again. So please, dear reader, take this as a small offering and maybe when i have the heart for it i will try better. It is an excellent book though.