Forgive me, people, this review will be all gushing! This book charmed me from the very beginning -- with fresh internal monologues, from Clay Jannon, a recent unemployed young man, who just lost his first job out of art school... Then he walks into a bookstore (OMG BOOKSTORE!!) and he climbs the ladder, and I'm in love. How could I not? This book is a love letter for books, bibliophiles, but also for technology. We know that the world of books, publishings, and reading have changed in the recent years, thanks to the wonderful world of Internet. There are ebooks, ereaders (Kindles, Nook, Kobo, etc), and tablets. We start looking for definitions from Google (instead of those huge print dictionaries). We start looking for facts on Wikipedia. It's NEW, it's EXCITING! This book refers to all that. It combines the wonderful world of stories (fonts! printings! hidden messages in stories!!), manual crafting (people making props for movies! Knittings!) and technology (data visualization! GOOGLE! computer language!) and creates a great adventure for a simple reader, like myself. It's not futuristic, it's not high fantasy, it's simply a use of contemporary items around us ... and of course, BOOKS!I'm simply in love with the feeling that this book evokes. I feel like I'm right there with Clay, and his eccletic friends: there's Kat, the smart girl working at Google, there's Neel, his millionaire best-friends who is making money by creating the best BOOBS visual in the world (yes, people, BOOBS!), Mat who is an extraordinaire with props, and of course, Mr. Penumbra, the owner of the store who is also involved in a secret literary group. And it keeps the right balance between books and technology. Just when I think technology will win it all, to solve everything, the book throws a twist. That nope, the great human mind can still win. It's just so, SO amazing.The book is not without flaws. I'm quite disappointed that the whole adventure pretty much happens at Google or at the store. I sort of want the story to go all "Indiana Jones" or "National Treasure", you know, with secret caves, and such. Also, the very VERY contemporary feeling of this story, might make it go outdated quickly. But in the end, I go back to the whole feeling I have when I'm reading this. It's excitement, it's happiness, it's like being with friends who are really, really enthusiastic about the things I love.“After that, the book will fade, the way all books fade in your mind. But I hope you will remember this:A man walking fast down a dark lonely street. Quick steps and hard breathing, all wonder and need. A bell above a door and the tinkle it makes. A clerk and a ladder and warm golden light, and then: the right book exactly, at exactly the right time.”And the last sentence just makes me all shivery and tingly ... because yes, the RIGHT BOOK, at exactly THE RIGHT TIME, will make everything worth while *sigh*