Should probably be two stars, but I feel mean and petty today. Sorry, Mr. Sloan. It all just seemed so...amateur. I feel kind of pretentious saying that, which makes me sad, because there's nothing I hate more than pretentious book reviews. It's just a mess of worn-out tropes and utterly unoriginal characters. Mysterious dusty bookshops and peculiar old men. I think Sloan tried to revamp that old line with some "hip" new technology stuff, but he just failed miserably. He almost made me hate Google just by talking about it so much. And he killed any potential for intrigue and adventure in the book by making his main character (oh-so-coincidentally) friends with experts on everything with access to every resource one could possibly need. Need to figure out a code in a book? By golly, guess it's good he's friends with a girl who has access to the best scanner and decoder in the world! Need money? Not a problem, 'cause his elementary-school best friend is a millionaire! Need a moveable scanner? Luckily he knows just the site to find one, and a stranger is willing to build and transport it to him! Needs to know about ancient art shit? Thank the Lord his co-worker is an archaeological genius! Christ. Sloan was clearly a Harry Potter fan, so I'm just glad he didn't write that series:  "'We have to find the horcruxes!' Harry realized. He logged onto the horcrux database and typed a simple search: 'horcruxes AND voldemort OR he-who-must-not-be-named.' Seven results! Perfect! But how to destroy them? Harry called up Dumbledore, who had made his fortune building a special transportable Horcrux Deactivator made of wizard cardboard. Hedwig fetched it for him immediately, and Harry utilized it to great effect. All was well." Yes, technology can make things easier. And I appreciate that Sloan didn't ignore it--too many books nowadays build elaborate plot points around things that could be solved with a simple Google (yes, Google again!) search. But he went too far in the other direction and killed his own story's intrigue.I thought the climax of the story was terribly underwhelming. I had no interest in any of the characters. I appreciate what Mr. Sloan was trying to do, but it fell flat for me. Things felt rather gimmick-y. It's probably a bad sign when the best thing about your book is that it glows in the dark.Sigh. What a mean review this is. I feel a bit bad about it, actually. If the book sounds really interesting to you, go ahead and read it. But I got nothing from it.