10/1/2020: $2.99 on Kindle US today3/29/2020: Well that was depressing. A sad story, beautifully told. And so unlike most YA Historical Fiction/Fantasy, it was most refreshing. The Kingdom of Back was not at all what I expected it to be. And I suppose that was the saving grace in my experience. Although, still, I was not especially enthralled. The YA genre needs books like this though. Wether it not be much in my tastes, it is true that the genre is often filled with unrealistically ridiculous romance plots that we both eat up and also eye roll at the same time. There is no romance here. No boy pining. No girl pining. No unrealistically and ridiculous handsome or gorgeous love interests. No one is throwing themselves at cruel boys that treat them poorly but are “oh-so-hot” we hate to love them and love to hate them. And there’s no slow burn, drawn out over 3-5 books romance or mystery or coming into their powers tropes here either! This is a stand alone! Very Refreshing!And if the lack of tropes is not your thing than I highly recommend Wintersong instead of The Kingdom of Back. In fact this reminded me so much of Wintersong but sadly lacking, that I almost feel compelled to read Wintersong again because what I was wanting and hoping for in The Kingdom of Back was just not there as it is in Wintersong. 3/22/2020The story you already know is set in a real land, full of kings and castles and courts. There are long carriage rides and summer concerts and a little boy in a royal coat. The story you have never heard is set in a dream of fog and stars, faery princelings and queens of the night. It is about the Kingdom of Back, and the girl who found it.I am the sister, the other Mozart, and the girl who found it. *eeeeek* Will the unboxing of my exclusive Owlcrate edition finally prompt me to read? And will this beautiful book bring an end to what has become the longest reading slump of my life to date? 2/2020:Sounds a bit like Wintersong with the musical siblings in a time of female opression. And I’ve never read Marie Lu before???