Two siblings. Two brilliant talents. But only one Mozart.Concept: ★★★★★Magical elements: ★★★Pacing: ★★ 1/2Emotional resonance: ★★★★Everyone knows of Mozart. The brother, that is. How many of us know the history of Mozart's talented older sister, Nannerl? The Kingdom of Back is a soft, fantastical portrait of the historical lives of Nannerl and Amadeus during their childhood in Austria. Following Nannerl, it imagines the childhood of a girl—one given amazing musical talents, and yet born during a time when women were not given agency over their creativity, their name, or their destiny. Nannerl's childhood tours with her younger brother, "the" Mozart, are the main backbone of this story. But as this is a fantasy take, we're taken on a journey that deviates from the original: Welcome to the Kingdom of Back, where everything is backwards, blue, and desperately empty save for a mystical princeling. This mystical princeling seems to know Nannerl's deepest wish: to be remembered. He promises her that he can make it happen. She just needs to accomplish some tasks first. But as the game gets darker and her younger brother seems to flounder, Nannerl begins to wonder what the princeling deems a proper cost. What would you do to be remembered?What I liked: I loved the concept. Focusing on music? Fantastic. Focusing on the female Mozart? Brilliant. I loved highlighting Nannerl, especially as we were giving voice to a woman who has been largely forgotten by history. The strength in this novel lies in its poignant and heartbreaking focus on what it meant to be a girl in that time period, and the terrible boundaries and lost hope that lay at the end of every story.What I didn't like: Without getting into spoiler territory, I felt the magical elements were weak. I was really excited to read about the faerie-goblin, music-vibe, fantastical other world, and found myself really disappointed at the lack of time we spent there. I also found the events that occurred in the Kingdom of Back were, personally, unsatisfying. Spoilers: Nothing felt like it had real stakes. Outside of the extremely obvious (Mozart's life seems to wane as Nannerl fulfills the princeling's quests), Nannerl's time in the Kingdom of Back seemed simple to me. The tasks had no threat of death or darker themes. It felt similar to a Disney movie, which I struggled with because that's not how I hoped this faerie/goblin world would go. I thought this novel would go deeper, make the Kingdom of Back a twisted version of truth, but it came across as a different version of what I was anticipating. I wanted more action, consequences, and follow-through.. I think in part because of these issues, I had a hard time with the novel's pacing. It took too long for us to reach interesting plot points, and not enough occurred chapter to chapter to keep me engaged. I kept fighting the urge to put this down.However, despite what sounds like a lukewarm response, I do think this is a memorable historical fiction novel—with a dose of the fantastic—and is worth reading for anyone interested in the blurb. I hope others enjoy it more than I did!Blog | Instagram