Buddy reread w/Monica 2/1/15-2/4/15.This book was a beast.You cannot top Tamora Pierce in YA fantasy. I don’t care what anyone says, they are wrong. Now you can argue which series of hers is best –or even which protagonist (the constant debate between Monica & I: Alanna or Kel?)- but you cannot argue her brilliance.This final book had almost zero romance. Which would normally make me cringe, but in true Tamora fashion you are so involved with her characters you just don’t care. I rooted for each and every one of them & her side characters have purpose, not merely artificial compliments to her main character.My one itsy bitsy issue with this one: Cleon. Tamora, I get why you let him go but you could have given my 10th grade self a little warning that the romance would end without a final meet between characters. That was cruel.But the action? And everything Kel stands for? And her struggles as a commander? And the battle scenes? Epic. Although I will admit (and I’m sure Monica will rejoice on this): 1) Alanna fight scenes and conclusion better were better in her final book than Kel’s. 2) Enemies in Daine books were more compelling (Ozrone was the perfect villain) than King Maggur or Blayce the Gallan. I was only introduced to either as a villain in this book (if there were previous hints I don’t remember them) so I just didn’t hate them with the same fiery passion I felt for Duke Roger or Emperor/Stormwing Ozrone.That said this book still has 5 stars. I don’t have to think every little thing is perfect. Tamora knows what she is doing and the story kept me glued to the page (believe me when this was my first reading I had it done in one night!).I was sobbing when I got to the end.And the last scene? It was beautiful. A promise for the future as she rides off with her best friend."Kel!" shouted Neal. "Are you going to dream all day? She's waiting for me!"Lovers, Kel thought, rolling her eyes. At least there was one headache she didn't have. She was about to tell her friend he could wait when she remembered that she'd get to see Dom while at Steadfast. It would be nice to be able to sit and chat for a while without kidnapping, flight, or war to distract them.She urged Hoshi to a trot.