Okay, let's see if I can explain how much I love this book without giving away the plot.I frequently tell people that I can't choose a single favorite book in this quartet: each is dear to me in its own way, for its own reasons--each is different enough that, really, I can't quite compare them. Lady Knight is one of my favorite novels not for the kickass fight sequences (which are awesome) or for the fact that it's the ending of the quartet and, as you'll know if you stick around me long enough, I tend to hoard favorite endings.Lady Knight is one of my favorite novels because it gives me an incredible story line for one of my all time favorite characters. Keladry is given amazing opportunities, yes; but she is worthy of those, as you know if you've read the other three books, and she bears the weight of responsibility well. Lady Knight is one of my favorite novels because it gives me an amazing array of detailed, vivid friendships and mentor/mentee relationships. Kel's relationships with Neal, Owen, Raoul, Dom, and Wyldon are all fantastic, and I love seeing them explored further. Her relationships with newcomers Tobe and Fanche and others are likewise detailed, weighty things that are given space to grow and develop. Lady Knight is one of my favorite novels because it is, really, a story about goodness. Like all of Kel's books, this is a story about doing what is right because it IS right, and because it needs doing and you are capable of doing that. It is a story about how doing good influences others; how brains can be turned into brilliance; how humility, not just bravery, makes a good knight what she (or he) is. Kel is not flashy. She's not a show-off. She is diligent, courageous, and skilled... but she is also curious, and clever, and kind. Look, I could ramble about this series--about this book--for weeks without stopping. Kel's a fave, and this book is a fave, and everyone should probably read it because I want to talk to more people about the incredible character arcs in this series.