2.5 stars, rounded up because why are there 4 different GR stars for flavors of 'like' and one star for 'not for me'?- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - On the whole I'm finding this Pride and Prejudice re-imagining to be enjoyable, though its flaws ultimately proved difficult for me to get past. Not least of these is the character of Melody Ellsworth, the younger of the two Milk & Honey Ellsworth daughters, who seems to be a melding of several of Austen's Bennet daughters into one. Did Kowal's editors think her readers couldn't handle more than one sister?The book starts with a great deal of warm affection between Melody and her sister Jane, from Jane's POV, though it rapidly devolves into the lovely Melody flirting with all the available men and being an utter bitch to Jane, all the time. Frankly it's difficult to imagine how Jane was capable of holding much affection at all for her unless Melody underwent a complete secret personality transplant shortly after the first chapter. The vague excuse that Melody is jealous of Jane's artistic talent doesn't fly: Melody seems incapable of self-awareness and I just don't believe that she doesn't find her beauty sufficient, particularly as she is the center of most of the attention most of the time and her mother's clear favorite. The Ellsworth father is far less of a presence than is Mr. Bennet in P&P, so his preference for Jane is hardly noticeable in the small Ellsworth family.The conclusion of the book is more than a little affected, too. Suddenly Jane's perceptions of individuals from weeks of interacting with them are changed forever by one circumstance, and minor characters are rather precipitously thrust into the spotlight. The author's handling of character development is a bit clumsy, she seems to have trouble showing the shades-of-gray that comprise most of humankind. Where Austen's Elizabeth spent time analyzing her feelings and behaviors, Kowal's Jane just floats along with the current until suddenly she doesn't.The book is affected in spelling: 'shewed' for 'showed', 'teaze' for 'tease' which was amusing until the obvious lack of similar pre-modern Austenian grammar made the spelling look like the affectation it was. Ultimately it was the build up of little things that took what started out as a witty salute to Jane Austen into the realm of 'oh look how clever I am.' It left a tinge of unpleasant hipster aftertaste every time one of those little things cropped up, although perhaps it's my own prejudice in ascribing a hipsterness too it, perhaps instead it's just that bog-standard 'witter-than-thou and I'll be on the New York Times bestseller list so there' type of authorship that makes me want to smack someone.There's also an inexcusable occasional clunkiness in the writing that intrudes, a lack of agility with words that is in no way an Austenism and for which the editors bear total responsibility:Lady FitzCameron was known to pride herself on the elegance of her table, but took no joy from entertaining. On the occasions when the Ellsworths had been invited to sup with her, she had always received them with the utmost grace, yet remained reserved in attitude. She knew her duty to her neighbours and paid attention to them gladly, but it went no deeper than that: she seemed to care only for her own."  Her "own" what? AWK-ward …