This was an incredibly frustrating book. The charm of Austen lies in the style of writing: light, witty, insightful, elegant, and able to skewer Regency life at a moment's notice. And while "Shades of Milk and Honey" makes sure to pack in plenty of Regency manners and swooning, the writing style is so jarring that I ended up reading passages aloud to other people, just to confirm that they really did make no damn sense.The author reuses words at an amazing pace -- frequently the same word is repeated in back-to-back sentences, sometimes three or four times in a paragraph. Worse, sometimes the author uses words she clearly doesn't understand ("droll", for instance, is applied to a completely humourless character multiple times, and appears to have been confused with a word that means "curt" or "short" instead of "amusing"). Sometimes she uses the archaic spelling of a word ("chuse"), sometimes she uses the modern spelling. Occasionally, she'll use a word that is archaic and proceeds to misuse it ("nuncheon" does not mean "lunch"), repeatedly. When you combine these bizarre word choices with laboured sentences that are borderline-incomprehensible, the experience is more like thumping down a stretch of rapids instead of Austen's effortless babbling brook.The plot doesn't even get started until halfway through, at which point I already hate Brat and Doormat, which might as well be the names of the central sisters. Most of the characters in this book are so glaringly based on well-known Austen characters that it seems too obvious, and I waited in vain for the twist that would make them new and exciting. No such luck -- if anything, they were stripped of all endearing qualities and hammered flat into one-dimensional puppets. The magic elements are explained in detail, but are completely incidental to the story. By the end, we've given up all pretense of being in an Austen novel and have stumbled into some sort of quasi-Gothic adventure scene. I was just so happy to have gotten to the last pages, I didn't even care anymore.I bought the book because I love Austen (and many Austeny spin-offs), and because I thought the conceit of magic being a womanly art was pretty cool. But now I'm just wondering what the hell reviewers were thinking in recommending this read. Having done a little more digging, it looks like Kowal is the VP of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. I can't help but wonder if the circles she moves in has caused her writing to be overrated, as I have no idea why this particular book merited the sort of publicity push it's currently experiencing. I wish I hadn't read it.