This is a very quiet book along the lines of Sense and Sensibility. Readers of Jane Austen's novels will recognize characters and situations, but in this book there is a much more realistic undercurrent of jealously between the two sisters. Plain Jane thinks she is ugly and will never attract a husband. She's extremely self-deprecating which made me wants to slap her at times. She is almost too good yet I cared for her and wanted her to be happy. I could relate to Jane more than Melody. Melody is young and a bit foolish but she has depth, more than Marianne Dashwood. I didn't much like her though, she reminded me too much of my own younger sister. Most of the characters in the novel are taken from Jane Austen or are typical of period novels. The male characters are better developed and more original for the most part. The lack of original characterization makes the finale of the plot predictable but also frustrating because there's little development between two characters who come together at the end. The plot is interesting though I wish the author had explained the glamour better. It's a bit murky, especially in the beginning, but more explanation is given as the novel progresses. It would be nice to know from whence the glamour comes and how exactly one pulls it out of the ether, how it is used and why women seem to have more education in glamour than men. The romance is quiet - more of a meeting of true minds than a grand sweeping passion, which I really liked. The characters share a passion which brings them together. I wish that the romance had developed a bit more and wasn't so rushed though. The author writes (and spells) in the manner of Jane Austen. I liked the writing style a lot but it does make the story slow and novices may have a hard time getting into the book because of the structure. Despite the flaws, I enjoyed this novel and look forward to reading more by this author. I would recommend this book to Janeites and those who frequently read Victorian and Edwardian novels. Those looking for high fantasy or passion will be disappointed. This book may also appeal to a young adult bluestockings and Janeites.