I tried so hard to like this series. I gave it more effort than I've given many series and it's almost as if the more effort I gave it, the more I wanted it to be good, the more it let me down. I wasn't even looking for something that involved, I just wanted a romance with a basic good vs evil plot line that I could semi invest myself in. I knew in books 1 and 2 that this series was never going to be one of my favorites, but I had hoped it would at least be decent, and sadly I was wrong. My issues:Consistency. Everyone is all over the place and the author can't seem to commit to one characterization. Take Daemon for example, the hero. All that I really expected from him was that he would be strong and I'd hoped for at least a semi convincing love story. Going into book one we knows he's a warlord prince, he wears the black, a feat only matched by his father and his lover, he's old, and he's known as the sadist. That would make me think he would be characterized as a strong standoffish kind of man who only opens up to his lover in secret. Boy was I wrong. He, like just about every other male in the book, is written like a stereotypical woman. He does a lot of throwing up when confronted with trauma, rushing from rooms in distress and not to mention the fact that he spends like 8 or 13 years (cause sadly I forget the total now) with his mind broken due to trauma, because the Sadist (definition: taking pleasure in other people's pain) can't seem to take it. That to me is inconsistent with everything we know about him from the set up, and because of it I can't get behind him as a character. Let's to go the main character next, Jaenelle. It's a book about her, she is the main character, she is dreams made flesh and all that mumbo jumbo, and yet where is she? It takes a good 40% of the book before she even appears (minus the prologue). Instead we get to spend time with people who wander around going where's Jaenelle? We spend more time with Lucivar's wife who is newly introduced in this book then we do with Jaenelle. And even when she finally enters the story she doesn't do anything. She walks around and people are intimidated. And then she's supposed to have a romance with Daemen except that they can't even do that right. And then finally when everything is about to fumble it's way into place we learn... that Daemon is a virgin. Huh? The dude who's introduced as a pleasure slave known as the Sadist is a virgin! It just doesn't make sense. I wasn't looking for this book to be good. It I just wanted it to logically make sense. It feels as if the author has turned all of her characters into Mary Sues. They're strong but weak, and nice but mean, they can do everything and nothing.And finally (I say finally only because otherwise I would continue on forever because there are so many issues I've barely begun to touch), finally the language. She just has characters say random things that don't have any grounding in the story and this feels out of place. It's like reading Peter and the Wolf with its musical themes. Like all the women call the men "Boyos." Why?! Are they Irish? Why that term? Then Karla starts and ends every conversation saying "kiss kiss". It's literally the only thing she says. Why does she say it? Its like the author didn't want to take time fleshing out her side characters so she gave them a code word so you would be able to tell them apart. Surreal says "sugah " like she's some southern bell, Daemon likes the use of "darling", and don't get me started on that stupid curse word phrase "hell's fire and mother night." The phrases just don't even pretend to fit her characters. I don't want to destroy this book series too much because clearly there was something that kept me reading through 3 books, I just sadly don't know what it was and I can say with complete certainty that this will be the last book I'm reading in this series.