Beauty and the Beast retellings are the bread and butter of the romantic fantasy world. I think it’s partially because we as a society have come to anticipate rude, brooding, “bad boy with a heart of gold”-style romantic interests opposite sassy, capable heroines who don’t take crap. The Beauty/Beast narrative is tailor-made for that kind of dynamic. Unfortunately, it seems like Whitten conceptually understands this but can't quite pull the threads together.There are two core issues with For the Wolf. The biggest is that the magic system is extraordinarily convoluted. I was 90% of the way through the book and there were STILL new elements of magic being explained to me. When this happens, it feels like the author is just tacking on convenient new features in order to move her narrative along, and it doesn't feel natural to the characters. The action, what little of it there is, is repetitive and nonsensical; a character goes into the woods, a shadow creature appears, and someone pours some blood on it to make it go away. Magic comes from blood, but also some people can just do it, and also there are special trees that appear in the house at random, and can give people magic...it's a dizzying array of concepts that are under-explained and also do nothing to create a compelling story. We get no real movement in the plot whatsoever until the very end of the book, at which point I was tired and ready for it to end.The other problem is also a huge one: the characters are relentlessly flat. Red is the quintessential avatar for the reader; she has very little personality and is barely described physically beyond "white" and "blonde," and by the 25% mark her mind is mostly consumed with lust for the constantly over-described love interest. There are a few other characters besides these two, but they mostly fall into thin tropes like "evil conniving priestess" and "jilted former lover." The Beast--I mean, the Wolf--has two friends who live in his castle, but they get very little screen time until the very end, when we're suddenly supposed to care about them. The evil priestess was particularly annoying, because she's described repeatedly as "mad" without any indication of why she is trying to destroy society. It's honestly an ableist and demeaning approach to an antagonist. One last thing on the characters: I honestly didn't despise the romance. It's exactly what you'd expect out of a story like this. One thing that did make me laugh in a not-good way is that early on in the story, the two main characters have to get married (for...reasons?) and suddenly their magic is connected/they're attuned to each other/they've got a Cosmic Bond that brings them closer. There's this emphasis on the spiritual, magical weight of capital-M Marriage that feels hokey and fundamentalist and, uh, heterosexual, and I didn't vibe with it at all.Any modern retelling of this fairy tale is going to get compared to the ACOTAR series and Uprooted. It’s as unavoidable as gravity at this point. The reality is that For the Wolf takes itself too seriously, lacking any of the ridiculous campy fun of Maas's ACOTAR, but without Novik's rich storytelling to back up its self-seriousness. Whitten had a particuar trajectory she wanted to follow to get to Book 2, and she just slotted convenient magical plot devices around that story to make it happen. It might have been OK if the worldbuilding hadn't been so uneven, or if the characters were more vivid and interesting, but none of those things happened.