The first daughter is for the Throne.The second daughter is for the Wolf.As the second daughter to the Queen, Red has always known her fate. While her sister will inherit the throne, Red will be sacrificed to the Wilderwood and the monster within.In her kingdom it is believed that the Wolf of the Wood has the ability to release the world's captured Gods, and that with Red's sacrifice, he may choose to do that. Thus, Red could essentially be the savior of the world.It's never worked before, but now could be the time.Red doesn't know about all that, but she is hiding a mysterious gift that is quite dangerous. Because of this, she is ready and willing to go, if only to protect her friends and family from the magic that lies within her.Upon entering the Wilderwood, Red quickly discovers it isn't at all what she expected. Sure, it's dangerous, but she was planning on instant death. Not so much.Also, the Wolf, he's no beast, as she expected. He's just a man who lives in a castle, has an incredible library, two humorous roommates, a magical mirror and needs some help.Is this starting to sound like anyone you know?For some reason going into this, I expected a Little Red Riding Hood retelling, but it's straight-up, Beauty and the Beast. My favorite fairy tale of all time. I smiled every time I discovered another connection.This is wildly creative. I loved the entire atmosphere of the Wilderwood and the Wolf's castle. It's dark, dank, murky and dangerous. The root magic, or earth magic, that Red and the Wolf had is quite captivating. I really enjoyed that aspect.Red and the Wolf's slow burn romance was also enjoyable, although when I say slow, I mean SLOW.For me, it dragged on too long. I almost feel like this could have been broken up into two books. While I liked all of the content, it failed to keep me entirely engaged. I was constantly checking to see how many pages I had left.However, it's good. It is a well thought out story with some great world creation, so please do not let my one small grievance affect whether or not you pick this book up.In fact, please pick this book up. I want to hear your thoughts! If you enjoy Fantasy with interesting magic systems, you could end up loving this. Particularly if you are a fan of slow-burn romance.I am absolutely planning to continue on with this story. There's some complicated political maneuverings occuring, as well as intense family drama, so I can't wait to see how that plays out.Looking forward to it!