I don’t even know where to begin...Trigger Warnings: EVERYTHING AND ANYTHING YOU CAN THINK OF... and then some!(Seriously, take my review with a grain of salt— I like obscene and weird shit, and that’s certainly not the majority’s cup o’ tea. I like a multi-layered story that may seem pretentious on the surface, but deeply nuanced under the grimy film on top.)*What follows is not a coherent review, but just tidbits I jotted down while reading:-The first 100 pages were like a very long Prologue. The main story doesn’t really kick in until then.-Exhaustively researched mythology and folklore from the entire African continent.-Marlon James has literally made an EPIC fantasy, heavily influenced by Africa, it’s various countries, cultures, peoples, creatures, and customs.-Surrealism, sex, horror, love, religion, sex, absurdity, violence, gore, sex, magic, wonderment, evil, more sex.-It’s so fucking weird, I love it!-This book is bursting with stories— it starts with a tale being told to the “Inquisitor”, and then branches into stories stacked upon stories like a literary tower; and more stories nesting inside other stories like a freakish matryoshka. There is a LOT to take in, with more characters, names, places, and history to remember if not giving your complete attention. It can become overwhelming if you let it, but after a while of reading consistently and thoroughly, I managed alright. The map and list of characters at the beginning of the novel help ease a bit of the confusion, also.-It gets exponentially more mystifying and confounding (and remains so, in all honestly), but the overall plot is strong, full of mystery, intrigue, and dramatic absurdity, and I was wholly invested in it. It’s richly layered in terms of how storytelling is utilized, but also in language and dialogue. Every character is an unreliable narrator, and with the heavy amounts of double-speak going on, my brain was getting whiplash.-There is an applaudable level of diversity here— LGBTQ, race (almost every character represented is dark-skinned: African, Middle Eastern (?), South Asian (?)), many strong, yet flawed, female characters. -Come the end, I had laughed, I had cried, I had cringed, I had cringed some more, but ultimately I was left totally and completely lost... and I am so goddamn ready for MORE!!!