In the middle of the book, I wanted to close it forever and HIT THE ROAD WITH MY JACK (I meant Jack Daniels bottle) DON’T WANT TO READ THIS NO MORE NO MORE NO MORE!Or they tried to make me go rehab or read this book! And I said no, no, no (for both of them!!!!)So I left my two stars, take my cannoli and take the longest swag from my Chardonnay to recover!I’m not sure I’m reading the same book with the lovers and fans. Maybe after writing so much teasing reviews, the publishers start to pull pranks on me and I always read the worst versions of the novels (But this is not an ARC COPY! So my conspiracy theory about being the publishers’ not so favorite reader fails at this time!) The author might be too efficient to play with the words to create a rhythmical symphony but instead of reading proper, concrete and simple dialogues, I got lost in riddles and riddles like somebody wants to tease with his obnoxious words and show off manners. I’m fine to read GOT’s bloodier and more twisty, edgy African version with mythological, folkloric and lyrical elements. I’m also fine with the riddles (if they are not used in every freaking dialogues!!! Like “my father is not my father, but he is my father”- SO THIS PERSON IS SUFFERING FROM IDENTITY CRISIS OR HIS MOTHER KEPT LYING HIM IN HIS ALL LIFE! SHAME!) Okay I got it, the author is brilliant and smart so I wasn’t imagine enough to decipher his words. But in my opinion those riddles were the way of his secret communication with the aliens in the space to come back with their space ship to take him back! I think everything makes sense right now!!!!So what we have in our terrifyingly stomach lurching menu:A pinch of homophobia, two pinches incest, pedophilia, teleiophillia, too many cups of cannibalism, rape, orgies, body mutilation and too much disgusting description of sex parts of the bodies.I love gory, dark, bloody, twisty readings but there must be a thin line between creating something artsy, stunning, capturing and creating something nauseous, trashy, disturbing.So writing and structure: TOO EXHAUSTING, COMPLEX for me! I had an urge to take an IQ test to check my availability to read this book. Maybe the author was TOOOO SMART so I couldn’t connect with his way of telling the story. ( Or he was so show off, pretentious which pissed me off and made me throw the book against the wall several times till I cooled down!)I am a simple reader who expected to read a good, heart wrenching, emotional, sensational story about a missing boy with its mash up of African mythology’ s mystical, rich, original, folkloric and cultural elements. But instead of I got something gory, graphic, pure violent, vulgar so called fantasy book which is announced as one of the most anticipated fantasy books of the year. Sorry but this is not the fantasy I expect, this is my nightmare I have to wake up from urgently!Feel free to curse me or judge me as an oxymoron but this book failed me and I didn’t like the way it made me feel! I DON’T LIKE IT! PERIOD!