DNF at 88%, which is to say after nearly 550pp. There is so much amazing about this book. African inspired fantasy, huge sense of culture, intriguing cast of characters, lots of really chewy stuff to think about, lovely use of language, and some really striking ideas and turns of phrase (the human-centipedy equivalent of what Europeans would call 'black magic' is 'white science'). It is horrifically violent, including much on page gore, slavery, rape and child abuse of the most horrifying sort, but there is a sort of fable/dreamscape feel to it that makes it just about bearable. Huge amounts of misogyny in both the society and the narrator, but this is increasingly challenged throughout the book in what's clearly shown to be a steep learning curve. Queer characters (all cis men) front and centre, though in a very homophobic gender-essentialist world (which the author is using absolutely deliberately--this is not a lazy 'that's just how the world is' set-up). But it's way too long. The plot doesn't even start till about 30%, the journey scenes are meandering, the conversations repetitive to the point of screaming, the motion of the story goes in long slow loops that are constantly interrupted by other stories and stories within stories. Clearly this is a deliberate style to give the sense of an oral fable or indeed a dream. But also--and again intentionally--our narrator is this deeply damaged, loveless, affectless individual who doesn't like engaging with people or want to reveal his feelings. That keeps the reader at arms length throughout the book--making the brutality more bearable, but unquestionably meaning it's hard to care, or to get to know the other characters as seen through his eyes. That combines with the dreamscape sense to make it very hard for me at least to engage emotionally with the book at all. The narrator starts to change in the last third, as we see him falling in love and the hard shell breaking. This is really interesting as we suddenly get a more descriptive sense of the world, a far stronger impression of the other characters and of the narrator's inner life. Loved that part. And then the narrative jumps to someone else giving a precis of how the narrator lived happily with his lover and found his lost family and reconciled with the mother whose absence made him a misogynist, all done off page and recounted in about a paragraph. I mean, that was the character and resolution I spent 500pp waiting for, skimmed over, and then we're suddenly several years later when everything has gone to shit again, and I'm afraid that was just one narrative shift too many for me. It is quite possible I'm trying to impose my sense of how a story should be told onto this book rather than appreciating it for what it is. It is also possible that I'd have more inclination to spend another few hours in this world if I didn't find the extreme violence so ghastly. YMMV; I just can't.