“There are two ways to meet the world. You go out with a blade in your hand or else with a purse.”Here is the main thing: just because there is G.R.R. Martin on the cover, it doesn’t mean that this is a GOT book. Now, this is both bad and good news. Bad, if you wanted to read yet another GOT and good if you didn’t. What I mean to say is that: Dragon’s Path is different. Daniel Abraham is not your mediocre copycat writer who explores vampires when they are hot just to abandon them in favour of anti-heroes when those become trendy. In my opinion, next to Adrian Tchaikovsky he is one of the most interesting and versatile writers able to transcend and merge genres, tropes and writing styles.“The Dragon’s Path” takes the readers to a quasi-medieval universe where dragons once lived, and ruled over the lesser, so called, human races created by the dragon overlords. Now, the dragons are gone and their descendants attempt to carry on without resorting to the main legacy of their creators: the dragon’s way. The war.In the first volume, we learn only about a fraction of this world, and two pairs of main characters guide us around it:Marcus Wester, a war veteran with a tragic past protects a caravan fleeing the city threatened by an incoming army; one of the escorted wagons is driven by Cithrin bel Sarcour, a half-breed orphan raised by a bank is trying her chances as a smuggler in a man's disguise. In the ranks of the approaching army, Geder Palliako, a minor noble with an eccentric hobby (speculative essay, how unmanly!) braces himself for battle. At the same time in the city of Camnipol, Baron Dawson Kalliam a rigid traditionalist entangled in court schemes and intrigues aimed at gaining the influence over the reigning king. “Remember that wars end. Try to be sure that there’s something worth having at the other end.” This is not exactly original group of characters, but all the protagonists were characteristic enough to keep me interested for over five hundred pages worth of reading. Also, for those who complain that the book is confusing: excluding the Prologue, there are merely four POVs and for the most time paired conveniently. An additional person enters the stage by the end of the novel when all is settled. I had more problems with the multiplication table than following the plot here. And to be honest, I hope that the next instalment will bring more perspectives to the table. Especially that the secondary characters are terrific even though kept on the margins.Furthermore, all the characters are rather straightforward in the sense that their actions feed the main two themes: economic strength and military might. They are created in a coherent and logical way, but Mr Abraham does not penetrate deeply into their psyche and skims over the motivations that push them forward. This means that while I sucked up the tropes I love (more Marcus please), those I am rather partial too were unable to break through my indifference (though I have high hopes for Cithrin). I admired how smartly Mr Abraham avoided the rotten YA trap in spite of having an adolescent girl as a leading female. I was so relieved that we were spared yet another wannabe saviour with a special ability able to pickup swordsmanship in three months. But more importantly, the girl is cleverly being developed; she is fiendishly intelligent (and it is not an easy feature, martial prowess is much less demanding from a writer), but at the same time both timid and to some extent innocent. This is a combustible mix. Her whimper and a bang in this instalment were a bit stretched, but I hope she will grow as the series develops.Sometimes it was also difficult to get ‘the feels’, because in the course of the novel the author does not force his protagonists to face extraordinary challenges, and most of the problems or dilemmas they encounter resolve too quickly and, at times, predictably.“Everything dies. Men, cities, empires. The timing is the question.”The network of intrigues and political complexities, as well as the economic schemes, is far more interesting, although still not as layered as I’d like them to. Nonetheless, at the macro level, the novel is more exciting than on the micro scale. The coin, as a power parallel and sometimes independent of the sword, is particularly fascinating. This goes against the typical sword and sorcery setting, and already in The Long Price Quartet, Mr Abraham showed that he is able to make the battle of ledgers as captivating as the more traditional action scenes.When it comes to the writing style, I found the “The Dragon’s Path” a nice and easy read. Nothing exceptional, just well written. Some things are confusing (like the abundance of races! I need more a visual guide than the description, especially that some of the races are quite similar) others are a nice homage to things every fantasy reader adores (the Gandalfesque “We shall pass” moment). But in “The Dragon’s Path” Mr Abraham confirmed himself in my eyes as one of the best antagonist-writing author in contemporary fantasy. I think this novel, in particular, has one of the best anti-heroes I have encountered. Mind you, Jorg is the anti-hero epitome, but what we have here is even better because the protagonist is more subtle than Jorg. Mr Lawrence wanted us to hate Jorg, whereas what Abraham offers is between pitiable and slightly annoying. The reader initially feels for the character because the pudgy slab of a man is cowardly and opportunist but not because he is evil, but because he is just normal, with the ordinary mix of average capabilities and dreams. Despite shortcomings and flaws, the novel was just fun to read. Staple fantasy, yes, but above the average and with a lot of potential to get even better. Recommended to both fantasy pros and those not so well-versed. I hope you will like it. Also in the series: 2. The King's Blood ★★★☆☆3. The Tyrant's Law ★★★★★4. The Widow's House ★★★★☆5. The Spider War ★★★☆☆