First up, let's get something clear, this book doesn't have any actual Dragons in it, despite the name, and The Dragon's Path is actually a road which connects various places in this world which was once made by Dragons (back when they were in the world). I don't know if going into this book I should have known that there were no dragons, because I would say that the title is misleading, but unfortunately I didn't realise and therefore the distinct lack of Dragons was a source of constant disappointment for me.Moving on to the other points of the book, this was my first Abraham book and I have to say one thing which really stood out to me was that Abraham really has a strong interest in creating a convincing economy. This series is called the Dagger and Coin series and I think that that's a far more apt name than the title of the book as this series certainly has a heavy focus on money and banks, loans and greed. I personally wouldn't consider myself to be avidly intrigued by economy, and whilst I don't necessarily think it's a bad think for an author to have as a prominent part of the book, I wish I'd known that that was what I was diving into before I had started the book.This story certainly seems to have a very slow build up. I found the first three quarters of this book very, very slow and somewhat tedious in places, as I say maybe if I had gone into it with more knowledge of what I was getting into maybe it wouldn't have been quite as much of a shock, but I just found it very hard to connect with any of the characters because so much of the plot was focused on something I barely knew anything about. Unfortunately because of the first 3/4 being slow by the time that the story really did kick off and keep me interested it just wasn't enough to recapture my attention.I have heard from various people that this book is not great (since starting it and updating on Goodreads my thoughts) and that the next few in the series are a lot better. I can certainly say I could see how that could be the case. The ending of this book did leave me very interested in the potential of where the story could go, and there's a lot which takes place at the end which surprised me. However, because of the slow beginning I don't know how inclined I feel to want to continue, so if you have read the series and you've continued, just how much better do the next books get? Is it truly worth giving another shot??This story focuses on a few different people, we have Wester who is an older Captain who's been through some tragic things and is working as a guard for hire. He's a fairly cynical and sad character because of the things he's had to cope with, but as this story goes on his personality and drive is put to the test and I think he became a better character as the book went further.We also follow Cithrin who is a young ward of the Bank as she attempts to stray from the town with a large chunk of the bank's wealth in tow when there's political mayhem breaking out. She begins as a very shy and worried character, but she soon became my favourite character and I liked her storyline the most out of all of the characters we followed.Next we follow Dawson who is a friend of the King and believes that there may be some sort of plot involving a rival of his afoot. He is a powerful man, but he's also always had a rivalry with the man he suspects and so proving the validity of his beliefs is certainly hard for him to do.Geder is a young soldier who is not really anyone of note when we begin the story. He's obese, he's not really very good at fighting and he's far more interested in books than anything else. However, when suddenly forced into a commanding role he has to change and adapt to the situations he faces and this certainly gave some shocking results.Finally we have Master Kit who is the head of a troupe of actors. I found that there were some sections of this book where I definitely liked seeing the plays put on by Kit and his troupe, but there was also always something a little mysterious about him too.Whilst I think we have the beginnings of some wonderful characters I don't think that they're truly given the chance to flourish in this story. I believe that over the course of a series it may well be that some of these become wonderful and gripping stories, but for the most part it was only Cithrin's story that I found I liked, unfortunately.I would say that if you have a keen interest or strong understanding of economy and politics then you may well love this story but for me it was a lot of laying out the groundwork for a much bigger plot. I think there's a lot of potential for the book and series to become far more intriguing, and I think there's a lot I'd still like to know more about, but for this book alone it was only a 2.5* rating for me, just okay.Let me know if I should continue on and what you thought if you have read the book/series as I'd really appreciate your feedback! :)