The book starts off great, and then devolves into very dull and pedestrian YA fiction. I bought it from our local used book shop on the strength of the first several pages, in which the world is established. The beginning reads like a saga or a good role-playing session: there is an incredibly powerful artifact called the Will which must never be used but cannot be destroyed. So the powers that be have split the Will into seven parts, and scattered those seven parts across all of creation. We see that one segment of the Will has been taken to the last few moments of the universe, contained in a time bubble on the surface of a neutron star within an unbreakable box in the center of an eldritch clock face, guarded by twelve wardens who resemble nothing so much as Simmons' Shrike. The jailers visit periodically, to survey that everything is contained properly. The Will is so powerful that even its segments are fully sentient, and by careful and patient subterfuge, the segment manages to trick one of the jailers into inadvertently helping it to escape. It then sneaks into and possesses the jailer, manipulating him further to convince Mister Monday (of the title) into bestowing one of his keys of power - the minute hand of a clock (you can tell that clocks and Time are a big motif) onto a mortal. But when we get to that point, the story collapses into mediocrity.There's two major categories of problem I have with the book at this point. First, the plot is such a rote copy of the template for modern YA fantasy novels that there is no tension, surprise or delight in reading it. YA novels like this one feature a lowly junior high school student who is an outcast and/or misfit (usually from a broken home) who stumbles across some amazing object that bestows astonishing powers upon the bearer. The kid wrestles for some time with this, at first denying it, then letting his curiosity (often fueled by desperation engendered by some external threat) lead him to using the object to go to Another Place, where he spends some time bumbling around until he meets the Plucky Native. The Plucky Native serves as a guide, then later a friend and/or romantic interest. The kid is still in denial about being the Chosen One, but when the Plucky Native is kidnapped/threatened, he has to step up and own his powers so that he can save his friend/lover. The big bad guy makes an appearance, usually to try to reclaim the object that the kid has. They fight, and all looks bad for the kid until he pulls some clever reversal and defeats the bad guy. Then the kid tries to resume his normal life. If you've read any fantasy YA books in the last twenty-five years, you've seen this plot again and again. The setting of this book is so imaginative, but the plot seems produced wholly by a template.The second major problem I have with the book is that the protagonist is singularly unlikable and unrelate-able. Reading "Mister Monday," I had no sympathy for or connection with the kid. Instead I found him whiny and irritating throughout.