Mister Monday, the first of seven novels from Garth Nix, is a fantastical fantasy adventure which utilizes imagination.Adventure fiction has always been a part of my childhood, from Gulliver’s Travels to The Famous Five. Amongst these beloved treasures is a series of books that should be read by every child, The Keys to the Kingdom. Within this series of books, Mister Monday introduces the world of dog faced security guards, ceramic komodo dragons that come to life, and an adventure that every child will be sorry to miss.The main character is Arthur Penhaligon, an asthmatic 12 year old boy who has an asthma attack and discovers he has been chosen to become the Rightful Heir of the House, by the conniving Mister Monday. Through Arthur’s adventures, he comes across many funny and likeable characters, such as Suzy Turquoise Blue who accompanies him for most of his journey, and a talking fragment, that takes the form of a frog, named the Will that guides Arthur. Throughout the series, and especially in Mister Monday, the reader gets to see Arthur struggle and try to cope with his asthma, and with the knowledge of a world only he seems able to see.The main storyline of The Keys to the Kingdom is of Arthur trying to defeat the Morrow Days, the criminal key keepers of portions of the House, which is the centre of the universe. Mister Monday takes place in the Lower House and deals with the deadly sin of sloth. It is in this novel that Arthur starts his adventure and learns about why he has been chosen, and who exactly controls what happens in his world. In the second half of the book, the reader learns, as well as Arthur, about the history of the House and the mysterious Architect.The vivid imagery and excellent description of characters and the surroundings invites young readers to share in the construction of an incredible universe. The secondary characters are vibrant to say the least; Monday’s Noon, a servant of Mister Monday, appears as a scary henchman that would scare even grown adults with his ferocious attitude and actions: Suzy Turquoise Blue, a cockney girl who becomes a close friend of Arthurs, and is a funny and charismatic character that brings a sense of light heartedness to the adventure.The writing is simply written and thought evoking in asking the reader to participate in the mysteries, and the description and characterization are second to none as the reader can fully relate to the multiple characters introduced during the first book. Garth Nix has done a marvellous job in writing an incredible fantasy adventure that will last through the ages.The appropriate age range for Mister Monday would be – Ages 9 and upThis book would be best being read out to a class, if it was read out then it would be suitable for ages 7 and up. This book in particular will spark many imaginations for creative writing and will also help further the children’s skill set in being able to describe, question and explore.