4.5 Shy South, a tough frontierswoman is returning from a trip to get supplies with her stepfather Lamb, a battered old Northman whose size and strength bely his gentleness. Their friendly banter is interrupted by the discovery that their home has been burned, a friend murdered and Shy's young brother and sister kidnapped. Amidst this horror 'Lamb' is strangely calm. Looking down at his scarred, battered hands, hands with only 9 fingers, he reflects that sometimes 'you have to be realistic'...THE BLOODY NINE!!! So after blitzing through the first 5 books in this series I had planned to take a break before reading this one. But when I had some time to kill I glanced through this first chapter and... THE BLOODY NINE!!! Logen Nine Fingers has left all he knew behind and started again. He's made himself into the kind of man he always wanted to be, the kind of man he was on the plains, the kind of man his father was. But when you're 'made of death' you don't get to choose what kind of man you are. In the early chapters especially, Logen dominates this book. The struggle between 'Lamb' the good man he wants to be and 'The Bloody Nine' the killer who revels in destruction at the core of his being is gripping. It's weird that in this book that has 2 characters (Temple and Shy) that monopolise POV chapters more than in any other Abercrombie work so far the book is still dominated by a character without a single POV. While some readers have complained about it, I thought that the decision to not give Logen any POV's was a great one. It creates added tension as we never know what he's going to do next. It was also interesting to view Logen's actions through the eyes of other people. It was especially powerful to see Shy's shock at the brutal actions of her kind,gentle stepfather. Logen's arc of redemption and violence was written beautifully. My only complaint was the ending.  After reading Logen's arc in both the trilogy and here I felt that Logen's story could only end in his death. After how far he had relapsed into the Blood Nine I didn't see any way he could go back. Especially after his behaviour towards the kids later on in this book it seemed inevitable that he would follow the Western maxim 'Live by the gun, die by the gun'. The fact that he never atoned to the children and ultimately rode off into the sunset seemed at odds with the theme, both in Westerns and Abercrombie's work, of violence repaying violence. So there were other characters in this book as well. I think. I don't really remember because.. THE BLOODY NINE! Shy was a pretty cool protagonist and I loved her interactions with Logen. I didn't like her obligatory bloody past (something Abercrombie seems determined to attach to pretty much all of his main characters) as it didn't really affect the story in any meaningful way and it would have been nice to see a 'tough' Abercrombie character who wasn't also a killer. With the exception of Finree, Shy is now my favourite Abercrombie female POV. While her tough, scarred warrior woman personality was similar to both Monza and Ferro, Shy did a better job of keeping my interest and sympathy throughout the story. Temple was a pretty enjoyable character. He seemed dull and listless initially but as the novel progressed he became more interesting. His relationship with Shy was especially well-written and the contrast between the two characters and how they learn from each other was nicely handled. Cosca returns, albeit in a depressing fashion. He's become a complete monster, burning towns and murdering innocents without remorse.  Despite being mostly unsympathetic in this book I was saddened by his death. For the first time in this book he was beginning to show some depth as a character, his abrupt death felt disappointingly anti-climactic and hollow  . Friendly also returned but was largely left in the background and we didn't get to see much of his awesome bro-mance with Cosca, which bummed me out. A returning character whose been criminally over-looked is Carlot Dan Eider (ahem* 'The Mayor'). Prior to Finree my favourite Abercrombie female she's still among my favourite secondary characters. Here she's as tough, smart and ruthless as ever. I'm not really a big fan of Westerns and I didn't really enjoy this setting. It was especially strange to see a Western setting without guns. It just felt... wrong.  This was especially evident when Logen and that rebel leader were surrounded in a building towards the end, Butch and Sundance style. It was a shootout without guns and it felt weird. Also in that scene Logen's decapitation trick felt like a really cheap gimmick and the reaction to a bunch of severed heads by a hardened soldier/murderous zealot was really overdramatic.  However the plot itself made brilliant use of the staple western themes of violence and redemption while Abercrombie's gritty style was reminiscent of the best westerns. This was an engaging read where new characters mixed smoothly with old favourites, the plot was well-written with plenty of twists and turns and the tone and recurring themes were true to both the Western genre and Abercrombie's trademark style. I'm really excited to read Abercrombie's next instalment in the series.