I've been saving up this novel for years, hoping I will find myself back in the mood for what has become the 'grimdark' fantasy subgenre. I thought, if I ever go back to this style of ultra-violent, cynical, depressing fantasy, I might as well go to the best writer out there, even if I was slightly disappointed with "The Heroes" and "Best Served Cold". Whatever misgivings I have about the glorification of violence / killers and about gratuitous swearing ( I think of Mr. Abercrombie as the fantasy version of Tarantino), I cannot deny he is a hell of a good storyteller and he has a wicked sense of humour, black as tar and sharper than the daggers of his ruthless mercenaries. He's also considerate and friendly online to his fans and good at promoting fantasy in general."Red Country" is the third of a set of three stand-alone novels set in the same universe as his succesful "First Law" trilogy. The first was a revenge story, inspired by Dumas, the second an account of a major battle up in the frozen North. This one is a western set in what is called The Far Country (The RED in the title comes from a dialogue between characters and it refers to the blood spilled in massive quantities from the first to the last page) I plan an authentic portrait of the taming and settlement of the Far Country. A tale for the ages!  [Sworbreck, the chronicler]The good news for the readers is that they will find between the covers five or six western novels blended together for the price of one. There's a relentless pursuit of a band of outlaws who kidnap children from isolated farms then burn and kill everyone else ("Unforgiven"?) ; there's the evocation of the Gold Rush as prospectors, businessmen and women of easy morals head up into the mountains in search of a quick fortune; there is a long section of covered wagons heading out into the endless prairie, including circling the wagons and fighting off the Indians; there's the tragic massacre of the native tribes; there's a search for hidden treasure by a band of mercenaries sponsored by the local Inquisition; there's a wild frontier city controlled by rival kingpins dealing in drink, prostitution and gambling. And, for fans of the original series, there's a gruesome gladiatorial contest between two Northmen and a return of some of the old 'friends' from previous episodes.As with other books in the "First Law" setting there is very little magic to go around, even less than in the original series. There might have been more in the distant past, and there are some characters who are trying to bring it back [Waerthinur], but the Far Country is ruled now by gunslingers, mercenaries and kingpins; by sword and bow and crossbow. Nicomo Cosca is explaining at one point about the new world order: He waved his hat at the dragon : 'Such things as this are worthless as a cow against a swarm of ants. There will be no place in the world to come for the magical, the mysterious, the strange. They will come to your sacred places and build ... tailors' shops. And dry goods emporia. And lawyers' offices. They will make of them bland copies of everywhere else. Speaking for myself, I would rather have tailors and lawyers than the Inquisition and lynching, but I can see the appeal of a romanticized violent past to a generation raised among bland, globalized consummerism.Linking the various storylines together is a core group of characters led by a young but very tough woman named Shy, assisted by an old farm hand called Lamb. Shy and Lamb are chasing the outlaws who burned their farm and kidnapped the woman's sister and brother. The two join a caravan of settlers heading for the rumoured gold in the Far Country. Captain Nicomo Cosca is also leading his mercenary army into the wilderness, allegedly hunting for rebels and burning their cities along the route, secretly hunting for Old Empire treasure. He's got a chronicler with him, Sworbreck, and a lawyer for dealing with contracts and sponsors named Temple. Temple is the link between the two groups, settlers and mercenaries, as he switches alliances several times during the trip. The novel is filled with action, reversals of fortunes, battles and sharp dialogues, most of it of the cynical, bleak variety about the cruel world we live in and about the need to toughen up for survival: 'Why don't you got a man, Shy?''Don't like men much, I guess.''You don't like anyone much.''They started it.''All of 'em?''Enough of 'em.' There's little hope of redemption for elderly characters like Cosca or Lamb ('Just leaves on the water, eh? Never any choices.'), but I found the younger generation still capable of envisioning an end to war and betrayal (Shy and Temple), an almost unheard of atitude in the First Law universe.  there's also a subplot involving Shivers seeking revenge against Logen for many years, yet renouncing the way of the sword in the end, a sign of hope that reconciled me partly with the author's known fetish for violence . It's always dificult for me to find characters to root for in 'grimdark' fantasy. I believe, from previous reviews, that Logen and Cosca are favorties with the fans, and it's easy to notice the two elderly grunts deliver the lion's share of the biting discourses on morality and expediency. I can see their point in the context of the story written here, but I cannot realy subscribe to it: Perhaps when you have faced as many disappointments and suffered as many betrayals as I, you will see it - there is no principle beyond the selfish, Inquisitor, and men 'are' animals. Conscience is a a burden we choose to wear. Morality is the lie we tell ourselves to make its bearing easier. "Red Country" was for me a better book than the previous two because, with Shy and Temple, the author has proven he can be more nuanced, more balanced in his treatment of this thorny issue of bullies and bullied. I'm not sure I'm ready to try the Y.A. series written by Mr. A. yet, but I will also not put him on any black list for future reading.