How could I not read the return of Logen "The Bloody Nine" Ninefingers, my favorite character from The First Law trilogy?I wrote that last April when details from Red Country first started appearing on the Internet, and then it was released in the States last November, so why I am just getting around to writing this review now, eight months later? Because I had a tough time getting into this book, and an even tougher time finishing it, for a few reasons:- The book kept alternating between the chase/revenge plot-line of Shy and Lamb, and the secondary plot-line of Temple escaping The Company of the Gracious Hand. This secondary plot-line could have been mostly eliminated, or at least greatly trimmed, to aid the pacing of this overlong adventure.- Beyond that, there were tertiary plot-lines that also didn't add much to the narrative, such as the awkward appearances of Shivers interspersed throughout the book. Yes, I am aware that Shivers appearance at the end of the book is significant, but read my comment on that scene below.- The book, for as slow as the first three-quarters of it was, had too many climaxes at the end. The battle with the Dragon People, the battle to rescue Savian, the confrontation in Crease, the confrontation with Cosca at the farm, and finally the confrontation between Shivers and Logen in Squaredeal. It was a bit overwhelming how many plot-threads needed wrapping up.- I didn't like the book's final ending. Shivers shows up, yes, but backs down from his fight with Logen, and furthermore, tells Logen he will return to the north and herald his death. So why does this immediately send Logen fleeing? I can only see two reasons to why it ended how it did. First, to set up conflict for a sequel, which could have better been done at the beginning of said sequel, if that is the reason, and second, is the possibility that Joe Abercrombie felt the need to maintain his "gritty" image, despite all logic suggesting a different ending.Overall, the book felt a bit bloated, which is a shame, because there were some great scenes in this book -- like when Temple jumps out of a window naked, or when a mercenary gets unexpectedly pushed off a cliff, etc. They were just a bit too few and too far between.I get the overall impression that Abercrombie had too many masters to try to please writing this book. Both the fantasy and western genres have rich histories, and a mash-up is bound to disappoint from one, or both perspectives. Additionally, this being a stand-alone book, and not part of the First Law trilogy, Abercrombie had to account for new readers as well as readers like myself, who were looking forward to revisiting characters such as Logen and Cosca, among others.That said, I did enjoy every moment I got to spend with Logen/Lamb, which also may explain my bias against the other plot-lines. Maybe I didn't get the fast-paced Logen-goes-beserk-on-a-pseudo-Wild-West book I wanted, but the book still has a lot of redeeming qualities and is impressive solely for its stretching the boundaries of speculative fiction. UPDATE: I read the following on Joe Abercrombie's blog today.Though I’m very happy with and proud of the result, Red Country was a difficult book to write. I felt at times somewhat uninspired. Somewhat burned out. This "burn out" showed, and explains a lot of why I feel how I do about this book.