Hmm.Well... I loved the first half? The ending was kind of sudden and not what I wanted... I don't think? Although I didn't know what I wanted. So. I dunno. But it's kind of fun and I really enjoyed most of it, so... yep. :) I thought it was an automatic 5 stars until that all happened so... apparently I was wrong? I don't really know what I think of it right now. :P *wanders off in confusion*EDIT:Okay I took some time away for a bit and I think I figured out the problem, which is that I was really enjoying it and then it let me down. Most of my complaints are spoilery though so they are below. In general though, I LOVED most of it, then it got scary, and then I just didn't know what to do with the ending because it was so sudden and I didn't care about some of the things. Plus I was upset about a couple things, so. But I do want a Quarkbeast...I'm leaving the rating at 3 for the moment, since the first part/most of it is 5 stars, or at least 4.5, and then the ending's probably a 2. But a 2 sounds harsh for the whole thing at the moment. So 3 it is. I will just have to see what I think of it in a few weeks' time. :PSPOILERS: Click only at peril of long rambling of complaints from yours truly and the whole thing being spoiled... *cough*For one thing, the Quarkbeast died. That was Not Okay. Especially the offhanded way he died and how he wasn't all that mourned. WHAT. The Quarkbeast was not some random goldfish who kicked the bucket. He was THE QUARKBEAST. I just was bothered how sudden/random/unmourned his death was. I liked him.Then a lot of the plottwists came out the the blue at the end and were weird and I didn't care. So Jennifer's a Berserker who can control her rage? Cool but why do I care? So the dragon wasn't dead but was dead kinda after all but there were new dragons? Well, cool, but why do I care? So the Mighty Shandar was bad after all? That annoys me. I expected him to be cool or turn out to be the Grand Zambini or something. Speaking of which, he's still not back. Which annoyed me. Also Tiger did nothing at the end which was weird. I liked Tiger! I wanted him to be part of the plot! Okay, back to ending stuff... So magic is back-ish? Well that's awesome, but it's still regulated like heck and the bad people are still in power, like the king who I loathe, and just why. Maybe the rest of the series sorts this out? But I don't feel like continuing if I have to go through people being nasty to Jennifer and not having the Quarkbeast around anymore. END SPOILERSOkay, so with all my complaints, I do feel the need to add that wasn't all bad. I loved the humor and most of the book and it was quirky and fun and imaginative and well put together. I just... the ending didn't sit well with me. *shrug* Maybe others would enjoy it though. :)