“To rule is a burden, but perhaps especially so for a king who enters his reign desirous of change, for he will spend his life wading against the current.”Before we begin, an easy way to see whether I liked a book or not is whether I spent the time curating a playlist inspired by the characters and plot. Without further ado, I present to you my Spotify playlist. EnjoyI didn’t think I would find myself here so soon, yet here I am writing a review for a sequel that took me only a day to read. I’ll be trying to keep out spoilers from this review but seeing as this is a sequel I won’t be avoiding discussing what happened prior to this novel. For a spoiler free review of the first novel head to my review linked below!Lara and Aren find themselves in unfortunate circumstances following the cliffhanger in the first novel. After letting her run away with threats of killing her if she stayed, Aren is fighting for Ithicana and gets captured by Lara’s father. Lara learns of his capture and vows to make her amends by rescuing Aren to give Ithicana the chance of freedom. This novel was an absolute rollercoaster. At every single moment my heart was pounding and I was nervous for both these characters. Their hatred toward one another (completely justified) intensified as the novel progressed and I thought I wouldn’t be able to make it to the end of the novel. I was worried Lara’s actions would be forgiven too easily in the beginning of this novel to make room for the smut romance I was looking forward to. DLJ does not let it off the hook that easy and chapter after chapter reminds us of the consequences Lara’s actions had. This isn’t your typical lighthearted read because there is actually a war going on during the whole novel. This, the novel also doesn’t have too much of a romance. I think the series went from enemies to lovers back to enemies again with the start of this novel. You could tell that the love for one another was still buried deep and it hurt to read the drastic contrast of their words to each other with their inner feelings. I read some reviews that hated how much Lara was disrespected and how annoying it became. I agree to a certain extent, however, every reaction she got was from new characters she didn’t interact with before. It wouldn’t make sense for her to only have one bad interaction and then miraculously everyone forgives her. The ending was a bit too good to be true and the pacing was slightly too fast for me, but overall I think this was a dramatic conclusion to Lara and Aren’s love story; it was impossible to put down. I’m a little nervous about the next two books in the series which follow two characters introduced in this novel and have Lara/Aren serve as secondary characters. I still have my full faith in DLJ to deliver a fantastic read; can’t wait!--Unseen footage of me at my job after staying up finishing a novel for the first time in ~8 years: ---1. The Bridge Kingdom Review: ⭑⭑⭑⭑⭑2. You're reading it ;)