3.5 starsI literally just finished the book and oh my God... I can't... I can't even... that ending...First things first, let me talk about my overall thoughts and opinions on The Bone Witch.As many of you have known, the Bone Witch has a lot of mixed reviews from several people. Even my friend's reviews vary from some liking it to some disliking it and even DNF'ing it. This is one of those books where you either love it or hate it or are somewhere in the middle.Me, personally: I liked this book!.I know, it's a surprise to me as it is to some people. I'll be honest, I wasn't sure what to expect based on all the mixed reviews. I went into the book with no expectations only to end up liking it! I honestly thought I would end up giving this book a 2-star rating but it's actually really good!Before we get into the review, I want to say something. This book is not for everyone. I'll go into further explanation in my review, but I want to warn you in advance that this is not for everyone. Putting that out there.Onto the review!The Bone Witch is about a girl named Tea (Tey-uh) who discovers that she is a Bone Witch after raising her dead brother from the grave. A Bone Witch is a type of witch that is connected to the darker side of magic and can control/fight demons that plague the land. She is then sent to a neighboring kingdom to improve her skills and train to become an Asha, a geisha-like entertainer/warrior. What's interesting about this is that it's being told by Tea to a Bard who finds her on a beach. Tea had been banished and is now living in a cave. She tells the Bard of her journey from the beginning until the end.The synopsis itself sounds interesting enough, right? You got a necromancer and a bunch of magic. It makes a fun journey.Well, here's where it gets complicated.The majority of the book is mainly info-dump mixed with story progression. This is going to turn off a lot of people. It all depends on the reader if they like this book or not. And in my case, I liked it. Here are the reasons why I actually liked this book. (1) The world building. Looking at the map, I was very intrigued with the world. And there is a glossary at the end of the book where it lists the different kingdoms, a short history of it, the current ruler, and a brief description of what the kingdom is like. And within the book, Rin Chupeco manages to create a unique world with different cultures and different people.Many of the kingdoms are inspired by the continents and countries. It's a mixture of European, East Asian, Russian, and even Africa and a bit of America if I'm not mistaken. Think of Ravka and Shu Han from the Shadow and Bone trilogy by Leigh Bardugo. Ravka is inspired by Russia and Shu Han is inspired by China. That's how it is like in the world of the Bone Witch. The people are diverse with lots of skin colors and cultures as well. It's such a diverse world!If I'm not mistaken, I believe Tea is supposed to be Philipino if she were in this world. Which is very interesting and very cool.(2) The Ashas. As mentioned before, the Ashas are Geisha-like warriors. Obviously, they are not actual geishas, but Rin manages to incorporate the rules and practices of geishas with magic and fighting. It was so much fun learning about them that I actually looked up geisha videos on YouTube. Makes you want to learn more about them.(3) Tea. I really liked Tea as a character. Most protagonists either whine or complain about what they are currently going through. Tea takes everything in stride and actually wants to learn how to control her powers.She does have traits of a special snowflake, but it isn't pushed into your face as it is with other special snowflake characters.This isn't really a spoiler since there are short little interludes of Tea after her banishment, but I think she has the traits of becoming an anti-hero/sort of villain. Which sounds badass. She is roughly around 15 during the middle of the story and is this sweet, kind, hopeful girl. Fast forward to when she is 17 and in her banishment, Tea is calm, mature, and even a little villainous. She has all the makings to be an anti-hero and I love it!(4) Very little romance. There is hardly and romance in this book whatsoever. It's hinted at it several times, but it isn't a main focus of the book. I won't go into specific details about it because of spoilers, but if you are afraid about the romance taking over the plot, have no fear.(5) The writing. The prose was done really well. I know purple prose can be a bit annoying to some people (even me), but I felt like Rin did a good job with the writing. Sure, there were times when Tea would describe something that can be summed up in five words. But other than that, I loved the prose!As much as I did like the book, there were a few things that did bother me a bit. I didn't hate them, but they could've used some improvement.Here are the things that prevented me from giving this book a higher rating.(1) The plot. There is a plot in this book, but it's mainly hidden under Tea's journey of becoming an Asha. You get hints of it from the interlude chapters with Tea and the Bard, but that's all you're getting. It isn't until near the end (70%) where things get interesting and start to pick up. Even though I did like reading about Tea's journey, this did bug me a bit. I wish there was more focus on the plot rather than Tea and her life.(2) The pacing. The majority of the book is Tea's journey. Meaning that there will be moments of boredom. I personally wasn't bored by any of it, but there were times when some sentences would drag on. So you better have the patience of a god if you want to read all 400 pages.(3) The info-dump. There is going to be a lot of information thrown at you throughout the book. I didn't mind them since I liked the world and wanted to learn more about it, but boy was there a lot of info-dumping.That sums up my likes and dislikes.As for the ending... Wow. I didn't see that coming. Now I'm even more excited to read the next book. March can't come any faster.Now, would I recommend The Bone Witch? Ummm...... kind of? Look, there might be a lot of things you could like about the book, from the world to the characters to the magic. And if that interests you, then you can get it. But keep in mind of the negatives. At best, this is a library read. Check it out and see if you like it or not to save you some money and time.VerdictDespite the negative reviews and a few faults that were within the book, I really did like The Bone Witch. It could use some improvements, but I did like it. I mean, just look at that cover! It's gorgeous and screams, "READ ME!"Thanks for reading my review!-Cesar