If you've made it this far, you probably know what you're getting into when you start a Robin Hobb book. I certainly did, and it doesn't change the fact that my soul is now a heap of shreds on the floor. Oh, is that melodramatic? I don't care! I can count on one hand the number of books that have made me cry, and this is one of them -- twice, in fact, and a few times afterward. My poor soul!That is not to say that this was a perfect book. I thought the beginning started out rather slowly, so at first I had no trouble sticking to my 50ish-page per day limit as a futile attempt to stave off the inevitable post-book blues. But then, once everyone got to Aslevjal, that idea collapsed and there was no way I was putting the book down until I realized it was one in the morning and the words were swimming before my eyes and I'd stubbornly read the same paragraph five times without comprehending any of it BUT OH MAN the poor Fool had just been chained to a memory stone dragon and sentenced to a slow death by forging so how could I just calmly go to sleep after that?!.I also thought the ending was too rushed. There was a lot of catchup and reforged (or maybe un-Forged) connections, and a number of events fell into place without Fitz making active choices. Some of the changes in Fitz's character between the two series are made more clear, but I didn't have enough time to adapt to that revelation. It's therefore hard to reconcile the ending with lines like "My dream was dead in my arms." That, especially, was a crying line! The only way I can make sense of it is if I decide that Fitz a) refuses to talk about how painful the loss of his truest friend actually is, which is so Fitz, because I do not buy for a Bingtown minute that he's not upset about that; or b) has finally learned to live like a wolf, and therefore chooses to be content in the present; or c) there's something else fishy going on; or d) both a and b; or e) all of the above, and now this is starting to sound like an SAT question. In any case, I broke down again during the penultimate, pre-epilogue chapter, and cried for the fact that Fitz gets the past he wanted -- and yes, still wants -- at the expense of the future.However, these books also present one of the most complex relationships I've encountered in fiction, with a lot of commentary about relationships, friendship, love, gender, and sex woven in. It would probably take me a few pages to describe it, and there's not really any good solution to the problem. Now I'm flailing around trying to disentangle what the characters think they want, what I think they want, and what they actually want. Basically, I just want everyone to be happy, and I can't figure out how that could ever occur. Damn Burrich and his line about the horse and the two saddles.Final note: line up all three books of this series on your bookshelf and look at them. Then think about how a certain character changes throughout the series. AWESOME.