"In that last dance of chancesWhen I know you'll not be mineI will let you go with longingAnd the hope that you'll be fine"WHAT TO SAY WHAT TO FEEL WHAT THE EFF DID THIS STUPID BOOK DO TO ME?!Started out great! actually started out not-so-great with sailing on ships and Thick getting seasick for like 400 pages, but I was still living for it because it's Robin Hobb and I'm a dedicated fan and it's Fitz and it's the Fool and it's going to chatter my brain completely and it did and my feels were all over the place... aaaaaand suddenly the train took a sudden swivel into NOPEville.One week since I finished this and I'm still not over itWell my style is to never write any spoilers (hidden or otherwise) in my review, and thank God for that otherwise I would be ranting for pages and pages. Let's get it out of the way why I'm so bitter about this effing book. Because its ending made me freaking uneasy and I felt it was completely wrong and completely untrue to the series' temperament. Not to mention that I hate it, HATE IT, when authors use death as a way out of having to solve problems like an adult, and the way everything else was handled in the aftermath was just a trainwreck and made me not like some of my babies as I used to. What else grated on my nerves? The Skill and the Wit aka Dumb and Dumber (ok I'll tone down the salt, they are decent, just NOT IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE BOOK), when they are used in a pish-posh way that would just to serve the plot I call bullshit, some events (well mainly one event in particular) could have been handled in a totally different if the old rules or at least the way they've been handled in the past were to be used, but OH NO, that would not serve the stupid plot so let's change it! *sigh* Ok I'm done with the rant, moving on to the positives... I haven't had such an emotional feelstrip (from a non-Hobb book) since I read The Nightingale one year ago... I swear there was this chapter near the end where I was despairingly sobbing my heart out one page and then I was smiling like crazy and joyously sobbing my heart out the next, TRUE STORY. The interaction between Fitz and the Fool was always a delight to read, ALWAYS *full force shipping*.Not to mention that no one can beat Robin Hobb when it comes to prose, the lady is boss and no one can change my mind -not even the drunken verbal diarrhea I had in the first half of this review-, I probably highlighted half the book."All of life, I wanted to tell him, is in our minds. Where else does it take place, where else do we add up what it means to us and subtract what we have lost? An event is just an event until some person attaches meaning to it."Here is an example of the emotional disorder that Hobb infected me with... I would be reading peacefully and something humorous would pop it and make me laugh and think that life is all rosey..."Dragons at a distance are amazing and noble creatures of legend. My closer experience of them makes me suspect they'd burp nobly after consuming me."And then a sentence that is so meaningfully poignant (maybe not to all but it was to me as someone who had left their war-ravaged country) would come up that would resonate me with so hard, I probably was tearing up here at some point."Fitz, home is people. Not a place. If you go back there after the people are gone, then all you can see is what is not there anymore"OK this is getting overly long, I'll wrap it up by saying, this wasn't the god-sent book that everyone on Booktube made it out to be, it definitely is not my favorite in the series, but the series is definitely still up there with my absolute favorites of all time.