All friendships go through rough patches, and in this Fitz’s relationship with the Fool is pushed almost to breaking point. Fitz has begun to have doubts which come from even stronger feelings of fear; he fears for the future, a future that may not correspond with the Fool’s crazy ideas. A dragon lies between them, one Fitz has to slay and one the Fool wishes to save. Friendship becomes the problem and the answer, as Fitz begins to realise that everything that has ever happened to him is because of the Fool’s touch. For the first time in this series I thought their time together may actually come to an end.  The Prophet’s Chosen One  Fitz is the Fool’s oldest, and perhaps only, friend. He is the only person he has ever granted the knowledge of his true name, but he is also his tool: his catalyst. Fitz may doubt his friend, and ignore his kindness and guidance, but he can’t ignore his power. He has shaped Fitz’s future, and he intends to shape the future of the world by resurrecting the remnants of a dying race: the dragons. Fitz can’t realistically stop such an individual; he should stand by his friend always.Chade is guiding him on the opposite path; he wishes to extinguish the race because, well, they’re dangerous. But so are men. And Fitz is stuck in between the two men who have shaped his life. However, as frequent readers of the series will know, Fitz will always follow his own mind; this normally changes in the heat of the moment, as the assassin has learnt to adapt the most carefully of laid plans as circumstance warrants. Neither Fitz, the Fool or Chade were fully ready for what awaited them in the dragons lair. And neither was I. Inside Robin Hobb revealed how complex her fantasy world actually is and how much more we are yet to see.  An ending that Fitz deserves? Fitz doesn’t seem to get any real lasting happiness in his life; he has had more than his share of heartache, and it is only going to get worse as the story progresses, so it was wonderful to see him get a glimpse of something at the end of the story. He has sacrificed everything for the Farseer throne, his blood, his youth and even his life have been shed so it seems only appropriate to see him sheath his daggers and hang up his axe even if it is for a short time. This had a great ending, one that allows the story to move even further forward in the future as Hobb protagonist enters a new stage of life.