“In this life, we are not garments which may be washed and worn again, Karris. We are candles, giving light and heat until we are consumed."I can't believe this, after all my fears this is my favourite in the series. Somehow the author made my worst plot twist my favourite in the series. I barely even notice that Gavin is in captivity. The book changed course, now Kip is the main character, he has more POV than even Gavin. Karris, Teia, Zymum, Liv and Ironfist still has POV though. But the last three POV was just a few chapter.“Freedom doesn’t mean a lack of responsibilities. It means a choice between them."There is still a great plot, religion, feminist, cool fight scenes that I so want to learn and a magic system that I envy.CharactersKip is amazing, Kip is now turning into a great young man. Even though he is surrounded by haters, like literally. He is still a good peeson. His friends are also the best. I want them for myself. They are willing to die and do anything for him. That should make him arrogant but it doesn't, he won't let them do that for him, how sweet is that! He has even lost weight, he is turning all the fat into muscle, workout, sparring and fighting for one's life can do that.Karris has changed, she is still badass but better. She is more political, she is now scheming amongst Chromeria's elite. Her relationship with Kip and the White is one of my favourite things in this book.  The White is dead and Karris is the new WhiteHatred and envy birth self-destruction in every heart that gives them a bed to breed in.Gavin didn't have much page space in this book. The little he had showed us his suffering and flashbacks which is super sad. Despite all that I still love him, can't wait for when he gets free and back in power.Adrasteia aka Teia is playing with fire here but not by choice. I love the woman she is turning into. She still has a little insecurity which is normal for someone who was once a slave.Praise Jesus Liv only has like 3 chapters, which was 3 chapters too much. I so do not miss her.Cruxer my baby still doesn't have a POV, I just wish he has one. He is the best of them all.“Knowing I would die for you, how would you live if you were worthy of that sacrifice? Live that way,” Cruxer said.“Simple, huh?” Kip asked sardonically.“Simple. Not easy.”Kip said, “You’re the best of us, Cruxer. In every way. Don’t you dare die, you understand?”“Meh, I’m invincible,” Cruxer said. “Now let’s get back, double time. Let’s see if we can work some more of this off.” He poked Kip in the belly, and they both grinned.Boys. How Teia loved them both.We got a major revelation about Ironfist which I still don't know what to do with.  He is a spy for The order of the broken eye even before he became a blackguard, he infiltrated the blackguard, the bastard and Tremblefist died for that decision. Oh and Grinwoody Andross' slave is the leader of the order, how ironic. And just because I love fashion.“The very pinnacle of fashion is to wear the hideous with great confidence.”