The BB&B BR with Choko & Sarah is still going strong!Five Prismatic stars! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The Broken Eye is the third book in The Lightbringer series so expect spoilers below guys.I warned you right? SPOILERS.Ok, ok. Tagging it.The Blinding Knife ended with Kip slaying a god with the help of Gavin & the Blackguards in the Battle of Ru but unfortunately it did not quite end on that high for our MC’s. On the trip back Kip fought with Andross and Grinwoody and when Gavin intervened he was stabbed with the Blinding Knife and lost overboard presumed dead with Kip jumping in after him in a rescue attempt. Gavin & Kip are taken captive aboard a boat by Captain Gunner, with Gavin being made a slave on the oars and Kip being tossed back into the sea as an offering to the sea god Ceres after Gavin realises that he cannot draft any more. He has lost all the colours and is now powerless. Thus Gavin is stuck as a slave on the ship and Kip eventually washes up on shore where he is taken prisoner by his brother Zymun. Andross meanwhile has realised that after being partially stabbed in the fight, his broken halo is no more and that the colours are only about halfway through his irises, meaning he has a good ten years of drafting ahead of him. Also, Gunner has possession of the Blinding Knife which has somehow turned into a one-of-a-kind luxin rifle and Liv has been chosen by the Colour Prince to become the Superviolet God. The Broken Eye picks up pretty much exactly where we left and follows on with each of these threads to begin the story, but things quickly go from bad to worse. Without delving into the specifics for those who have yet to read this third book, there are some very painful moments ahead for Gavin who struggles to accept his new limitations and to come to terms with his mortality. Andross is becoming more powerful by the day, the White who was his only check is dying, the Colour Prince is winning the war and Teia seems to be in over her head with the Order of the Broken Eye. Kip on the other hand is definitely growing as a person, and it is a joy to see him making the transition from boyhood to adulthood. There are still moments where he inspires sighs and face-palms, but more often than not he seems to be making better choices and to be taking on the mantle of leadership with aplomb. Karris takes a big step up in this book towards living up to her full potential and being the character everyone knew she could be. For a while she seemed to be adrift in a sea of uncertainty, but she finally takes control by embracing who she is. I am looking forward to her further development. As mentioned, Adrasteia is indeed swimming with sharks, but simultaneously she seems to be coming into her own. As her confidence and skillset grows, she is displaying glimpses of a future where she might just be the scariest person in this story, provided of course she survives her swim. And gets rid of Murder Sharp. *shivers And lets not forget the Old Man of the Desert. A foe to be respected… And Andross Guile. And the Order of the Broken Eye. And the Colour Prince. And Zymun. Oh man, things are indeed looking dark as black luxin.Honorable mentions to Ben-Hadad, Tremblefist, The White and Orholam the slave.The writing was as good as I have come to expect from Mr Weeks. It feels like he has quite a lot of fun writing these and I happily admit am that I having just as much fun reading them. Without out doubt, this is one of the most original fantasy series’ I have ever read and I do not hesitate to recommend it. The magic system is superb, the characters are fantastically real, and the author is one of the very few writers who seem to be able to blindside me entirely with his twists and revelations and this book is no exception. *tips hat I can hardly contain my excitement for the next book in the series, The Blood Mirror and hope that if you have not yet read this series that you give it a try and hopefully love it as much as I do.