Red Country is a spin-off from the fantastic First Law Trilogy, no doubt an intended bridge towards Abercrombie’s eventual reprisal of his best characters. Unfortunately, it just doesn’t quite come together as it should. The setting is a little odd and out of place with what we have seen before. This series always felt somewhat Norse-like to me with a warrior culture under threat from a more technologically advanced Southern state with some dark fantasy elements and wizards thrown in. And now we had a western setting? This is one big mash up ideas, too many, which make the entire situation difficult to conceptualise: it felt forced. Although the world building is off centre, the characters are on point as always. Shy South is an extremely hard woman both in body and temperament. She does not take crap form anyone and has her own skewed sense of justice. Her family have been stolen by slavers, so she hunts them down herself: she waits for no man. She is so well written; she is angry, tough and has a plot deserving of her. She’s the sort of woman you want on your side and never to face off against, ever. However, he’s not by herself. She has the unassuming Lamb by her side. I won’t mention any spoilers, though I think it will be very, very, obvious to most readers who this mysterious character is. Shy doesn’t know, but you will. He is even tougher than Shy and can take one hell of a beating. Most men would be dead by now; it’s a miracle he’s still walking. The key feature that makes me love Abercrombie’s style is the multifaceted nature of his characters; they are realistic and flawed: they are human. There is no evil side per say, everyone exists in a self-serving neutral state and this is a theme he replicates here, though they never seemed to belong together in this story or this setting. It is entertaining read, it just didn’t have the usual flow of Abercrombie novels. I found it hard to get into because of the lack of suspense that is apparent in his previous books. I remember reading an article (or a blog post) online a while ago that stated how much the author struggled to write this book. It shows. It’s weird and it’s a bit of a mess. The characters redeemed it somewhat, though I think he should have concluded the story of his main character then gone back and wrote this. I honestly think it would have been a better book for it.