I now have a YouTube channel that I run with my brother, called 'The Brothers Gwynne'. Check it out - The Brothers Gwynne
“Strange, how the best moments of our lives we scarcely notice except in looking back.” My 60th read of the year! Red Country made me hit my 2021 Reading Challenge!Right after finishing The Heroes I began the third and final instalment thus far that Joe Abercrombie has set in the First Law World. A very different tone here, set in the same time period, but with a far stronger western, outlandish mood and atmosphere, which is awesome in my opinion. I'm going to make a bold statement, and say that Red Country is actually my favourite Abercrombie standalone! I really enjoyed Best Served Cold and The Heroes, but for me this was better. Each is drastically different, with different strengths, so I think it really depends on individual tastes which you will prefer. I loved the overall more intimate tone and also some of the characters from the original trilogy.... Aghh I was so happy to see one return! So, so happy! There were terrible things happening, but I was smiling, because he was back!In Red Country, two children are taken by a band of bandits, and we are not sure why. So, a girl named Shy and her mentor and protector, Lamb, set off on a journey to recover them. Throughout this, they are flung into gang conflicts, the dangers of going West, and many life-threatening circumstances. In this we have a variation of other characters who end up having to help or hinder the other major characters, and most have different motivations and aims, often not directly linked to the main plot line, but still having a major impact on it.“People have often accused me of inconsistency but I feel that I have always, at any given junction, done the same thing. Exactly what I pleased.” Joe Abercrombie wrote his three standalone stories aiming at slightly different genres, with Best Served Cold being a revenge tale, The Heroes being military fantasy, and Red Country is a Western. I am not a massive reader of Westerns, but it just seemed to fit perfectly in this setting. The world is the same, but Abercrombie is a master of prose and exploring themes, so he managed to make the story feel so different with Western aspects, despite being in the same world as the previous books. Masterful in my opinion! The characters as always were strong. Shy was the central perspective. She wasn’t the strongest of his characters, but I think she was still very enjoyable to follow, with a cool insight into those around her and some very unique traits. My favourite character that we met for the first time in Red Country was Temple. He is very intelligent, with a specialism in law, and yearns to be brave. But it would be fair to say that it doesn’t come naturally to him. It would also be fair that his natural instinct is usually to run away. These characteristics put together act as a catalyst for some of the best scenes, some of which are just absolutely hilarious, and others which act as a major turning point.“In violent times folk like to kneel to violent men. In peaceful times they remember they’re happier standing.” Joe Abercrombie also maintained his grim dark streak, of course. There are some brutal scenes here. On top of that, these characters just have a really rough time. I just want them to live a boring life, just farming with their family and friends. At this point, I would be happy to read a book about that, so long as these characters are given some measure of peace.I think that the standalone trilogy in this world really compliment each other, and set up a number of conflicts to be explored in the next series in the world. The stories are wrapped up in each one, but there are certainly many questions left unanswered, and as such there is much to still learn about this world.5/5 STARS