There’s a fresh voice in the YA fantasy world and Elizabeth May isn’t afraid to mix it up, including, old Scottish lore, some steampunk, a touch of grit and light romance and one heck of a heroine, a young lady far too independent for the mid-nineteenth century aristocracy. THE FALCONER is a highly intriguing tale filled with spirit and delightful twists!While her father plans her betrothal, Aileana has plans of her own, plans of revenge against the faery that killed her mother right before her eyes and she is the only one that knows of their existence. A square peg being forced into the round hole of obedience and subservience, Aileana has a secret or two she keeps close to the vest. She has also discovered she is the last of her line, a Falconer, a female warrior born with the gift for hunting and killing the fae. Without her, humanity faces total inhalation as the hands of the fae.Her mentor of sorts is one of fae, the exiled Kiaran, a moody and terse young man who knows no boundaries, is merciless on Aileana and has her heart in a complete uproar. Since when did Aileana get all soft over a male? Add to the mix, the adorable little pixie, Derrick and a best friend who covers for her eccentric behavior while being clueless as to why, some brilliant steampunk creations made by Aileana, herself and one can hardly avoid being drawn into this fascinating tale. Has Aileana’s heart gone cold? Her quest for revenge is brittle and icy, her mission is clear, but life is never easy and this young woman’s life is split in two, the one she needs to live and the one the world expects her to love. Rather like David and Goliath, Aileana will have to stand tall against evil and not get caught by humanity.A perfect read for young adults, there is attitude, the quest for independence and being trapped in a world filled with “rules” she can only try to abide by. From the steampunk to the fae, this feisty heroine is a fresh change from angst-filled young adult fantasies in every way!I received this copy from Chronicle Books in exchange for my honest review.Series: The Falconer - Book 1Publisher: Chronicle Books LLC (May 6, 2014)Publication Date: May 6, 2014Genre: YA Fantasy | SteampunkPrint Length: 323 pagesAvailable from: Amazon |  Barnes & NobleFor Reviews & More: http://tometender.blogspot.com