Full review Had to stop reading the second book so I can write a review for this before I mix the two up lol What I liked - I found the storyline unique. I have read alot of fae related book. I have even read fae + technology related books but nothing like ‘the falconer’ (someone whose destiny is to hunt and kill fae that threatens the human race). I loved all the other supernatural elements too like the different types of fae and a seer (apart from seeing visions, they are the only ones that can naturally see the fae)- The characters. I liked everyone in this book which usually doesn’t happen. From Aileana, the falconer, to Kiaran the deadly fae, to the seer and my favourite ‘person’, the pixie (why can’t I remember his name????) I love that he loves to sew and takes honey as payment. He’s just too cute 😭- Although this is steampunk (a word I just learned of), the tech talk was not boring which was nice! Let me not lie, I kinda zoned off sometimes when Aileana was describing the mechanics of her tech but it did not happen enough times for it to bother me. - I loved the relationships in this, which were mostly platonic! I loved Aileana + Pixie, Aileana + the seer and Aileana + Kiaran. I love when the MC in a book actually interacts with different people instead of just the potential love interest. It makes them more interesting. - Grief was a theme in this. Aileana watched her mother get killed by a fae and that is what made her the way she was. Aileana actually never grieved her mother but instead was in what I would call a state of denial. All she thought of was revenge and it showed that her lack of grief was actually a weakness. Although thankfully I don’t relate, I can see why one would be like her when they watch someone they love get killed. I hope she learns to heal in the next books Overall, this was a great book and I still have a lot of questions that I hope get answered in future books.  pre-reading I literally have no idea what "Steampunk" is so here is hoping to be educated lol (if I actually notice a difference)