4.5 stars!Spindle's End is my fourth Robin McKinley novel (and my new second favourite after the wonderful Deerskin), and I've come to love the quirks of her writing. She tends to write books sparse in dialogue but rich in description, world-building, and character-studying; rather than snappily zipping from action scene to action scene, her narratives slowly unfold to introduce you to their world and often go off on tangents, explaining this or that. This, I think, is what puts some would-be readers off her stories, which is valid! Personally, I really like it; reading Spindle's End felt very much like reading an old tale, full of magic and whimsy.Speaking of fairytales, there's enough of the Sleeping Beauty story woven in here that you won't forget that you're reading a retelling of the tale, but McKinley injects her own fresh twists. Even if you've got an entire shelf full of Sleeping Beauty variants, you won't quite have read this one. I grew up with the Disney film (I watched it so often that now, almost twenty years later, my dad remembers the opening song by heart), but where Disney's princess has been criticised for lacking agency, McKinley's princess is lively, headstrong, and unlike a princess at all. On her name-day, twenty of Rosie's fairy godparents grant her impractical gifts--skin like milk, talent in embroidery, golden curls, lips as red as cherries--but she balks against them all, cutting off her golden hair at the age of four and choosing to spend her time with animals rather than playing the flute.Ordinarily, these characteristics in a protagonist would give me pause, given that young adult literature in particular is full of tomboyish female characters who elevate themselves above other girls who do like "girly" things. Wonderfully, however, McKinley introduces another protagonist, Peony, who embodies all the "princessy" characteristics Rosie dislikes--and then has them become best friends. It was so refreshing to read a strong friendship where both girls are allowed to be utterly themselves!This is a novel full of female characters in charge of their own destinies, even when according to fate, they ought not to be. It's got sweet, slow-burning romances that you'll see coming and won't be able to help but root for, and there's also a huge emphasis on platonic and familial love, each just as powerful as the last. There are animals who can talk (but only to Rosie), and what they have to say is often funny, often poignant.In short, I'd recommend Spindle's End to any fairytale fan, especially one in search of something comforting and cosy to sink into. I bought my own copy used on Amazon, and from the slightly shelf-worn edges and yellowed pages, I can tell that it might have deservingly been somebody's well-loved favourite!