The exercise of an “honest review” is an interesting one. Generally on goodreads I write frank reviews to vent or to remind myself of my thoughts for later. I tend to pick my reading for recreational purposes. That meshes well when I get a netgalley book to review which I would normally read anyway.This book I asked for on the off chance that I’d like it, as some Klunes are desert island reads for me. Having quickly ascertained that this book was awful, I had to think a bit about what to do. If I had downloaded the sample from amazon, that would have been the end of it. If I had bought it, I would not have continued to read it, and returned it for a refund. I’m not a professional book reviewer who has a broader job to review books, and liking or disliking a book is less central to how she goes about it.But I got the copy in exchange for an honest review. Perhaps I got one out of a limited number, so it seems unfair not to do what I undertook. If you like Klune, you will probably like this book. This is more juvenile fabulist Klune, not adult Klune. This is also Klune writing in this particular moment in time - of growing stress, hate, fear polarisation and evil on the part of those in power. This book is, in part a response to current political trends in the Anglosphere. In the book he basically exhorts all of us to speak out against tyranny and do what we can to stop it. Can’t argue with that.Here are some issues I have with the book which many readers will not: the story is a bit like a fairy tale (I hate fairy tales) or a fable (I hate fables). The story is all about the kids (I hate kids).Having said all those lengthy disclaimers, here is my review:God it was awful.The book starts out with the humour of discomfort. The MC is a misfit in a toxic workplace with a confined uncomfortable life. There is an air of Dickensian misery. There is an air of Englishness about the whole thing, perhaps the way everyone is trapped in miserable powerless damp grey lives. At the same time it has a theme of self fulfilment/individuality which is very American. The book read like a juvenile. At one point I popped onto Amazon to see whether the book was marketed as for kids or young adults, and it is not. The narration talks down to the readers. The narration talks a lot generally. It is wordy and self indulgent. Someone has been reading too much Douglass Adams recently, and possibly Winnie the Pooh. It’s pretty clear in the early chapters how the book is going to unfurl. You can just tell By about page 5 that the MC’s arc will be about finding himself, a found family and self realisation. (And it is).So he goes off to check out an orphanage for unusual children. At this point it is confirmed that the main theme is “even if you are unusual/a bit fat/everyone thinks you’re evil, you are a good person, accept yourself as you are. We should accept and welcome everyone”. (And it was). There is lots of uncomfortable exchanges with people which I did not enjoy. You can tell there is going to be a romantic arc between the MC and the fellow who runs the orphanage, and some revelation about the shenanigans of those in power. (And there was).This book can be targeted at Young People as there isn’t any sex in it.(not that young people care, but older people in charge of marketing apparently do). Another annoying aspect:  the MC moves back to the island to live with his new BF who runs the orphanage and the kids. It’s a Government Orphanage. Wouldn’t any self respecting government have concerns with someone just turning up and moving in?