Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope.I'll be honest, I read it, and I loved it, writing was great and everything. Then months after reading it I discovered that his book was inspired by Canada's Sixties Scoop."It remained fuzzy until I stumbled across the Sixties Scoop, something I’d never heard of before, something I’d never been taught in school (I’m American, by the way). In Canada, beginning in the 1950s and continuing through the 1980s, indigenous children were taken from their homes and families and placed into government-sanctioned facilities, such as residential schools. The goal was for primarily white, middle-class families across Canada, the US, and even Europe—to adopt these children. It’s estimated that over 20,000 indigenous children were taken, and it wasn’t until 2017 that the families of those affected reached a financial settlement with the Canadian government totaling over eight hundred million dollars."Even this description of residential schools is sugarcoating it. He bedazzled and turned into fantasy the trauma of children who were forcibly separated from their families in a cultural genocide(that involved torture, SA, and murder... so you know part of an actual genocide), and then acted like it was all figured out after a settlement. Literally profiting off of missing and undocumented children, and people who are STILL living with the trauma of residential schools, who are still living like second class citizens in THEIR country due to the impact of those schools(which ran well until the mid 90's) along with so many other atrocities committed against them over the past hundreds of years. Alsoooooooo from a podcast...“I didn’t want to co-opt, you know, a history that wasn’t mine. I’m a cis white dude, so I can’t ever really go through something like what those children had to go through.So I sat down and I was like, I’m just going to write this as a fantasy.”I'm sorry, what? Can you imagine if someone said this EXACT same thing but with using the holocaust, or slavery in America? "You know as a cis white dude I don't understand what being a slave or being Black in America is like, but if I turn that story into a whimsical, humorous, fantasy, I think I can sort of maybe try"And the icing on the cake, once you realise the source material is. The message is essentially "This place isn't so bad, they just needed to find someone in the system who cared about them... Also while they are still ~*~different~*~ they are still kids who deserve love". Stop it.I honestly wish white folk would stop using BIPOC trauma as a springboard for their ideas.ETA: Seeing as this is getting some traction I thought I would add some links of places you can donate to support survivors(all these links I originally found through lisa.beading on Instagram). Educate yourself and use your voices to amplify their stories, not twist and sugarcoat it into whatever this book wasThe Indian Residential School Survivors SocietyLegacy Of Hope FoundationKamloops Aboriginal Friendship SocietyETA 2 I truly hope if TJ reads this, he understand why what he did was so problematic, and educates himself. In part of that podcast episode I posted he says "We have to speak up for those that can’t speak for themselves. And that’s kind of the theme of the whole book is, is to raise your voice for those who don’t have one." You took someone elses story, and changed it to something more "palatable". You took their voices away. If this really struck a chord with you, you're a talented writer, you could have easily written something else, and still used your platform to elevate and amplify Indigenous voices. Something you can still do, if you choose to.