Well, that was… painfully averageFirst, let it be known that this is in no way a ‘bad book'. The writing was decent. The characters are likable. The plot is engaging enough. But I’ve definitely read this book before. Many, many times. And I’m sure you have too. I could call every reveal, every twist, every next step of the story. It follows the same formula as countless YA fantasies out there, and that’s not necessarily a bad thing!If you like those stories and aren’t in the market for anything particularly new, then totally read this one. It’s not a bad book, and many of you will love it. I just wasn’t one of those people.Even though I didn’t love it, I still did have a good time reading it. Whenever I picked it up I would fly through it. The problem was that when I put it down for whatever reason, I never felt the urge to pick it back up. I didn’t have the need to know what happened next and how it was all going to play out because, as I said, I already knew the formula and could already guess what was to come.In the end, I did enjoy this book. It was decent and quick to read. Also, Ferrick deserves some love. This boy went through so much. I felt so bad for him. They were literally using him for parts at some points, a thing that I found both tragic and hilarious.The romance was predictable and felt a bit shallow. The two characters barely knew each other. Also, you know in stories when one character will keep a huge secret from the other and they have this huge confrontation when character A asks "why didn't you tell me. Didn't you trust me?" and Character B goes into this whole apology speech and promises to trust them?I hate that.And it's not something that only this book has. So much of YA has this. In fact, a lot of stories have this but I hate it most in YA because it usually happens between two characters that barely know each other and have no reason to be spilling their deepest secrets.It's like, of course, they didn't tell you! Why would they tell this to someone they meet two weeks ago!So, yeah, I guess I recommend it. I don’t doubt that many people will like it. But be cautious, the synopsis on Goodreads says, “for fans of Stephanie Garber’s Caraval and Sarah J. Maas’s Throne of Glass series” and that is exactly what it is, for better or worse. It felt at times like it was trying very hard to emulate those other books.