I really enjoyed the way  Meagan Spooner blended Russian folklore elements into this retelling of Beauty & the Beast. The pacing does fall a bit on the slow side resulting in some plot dragging moments. However, if you enjoy retellings of fairytales, you might find this one interesting.There may have been more, but the Russian fairytales Tsarevitch Ivan, the Firebird and the Gray Wolf, The Firebird and Princess Vasilisa, and Vasilisa the Beautiful are all mentioned or incorporated into the story in one way or another. I don't want to ruin any of the surprises for readers, so you can find out exactly how when reading. I will say that this was one of my favorite things about the story. It was really quite brilliant the way  Meagan Spooner took those Russian tales and worked them into this retelling of the classic French tale. I wasn't sure what to expect, but really enjoyed the result.My issue with the book has nothing to do with Spooner at all in fact. I've always adored Beauty & the Beast. As a child, the Disney film was a favorite. Belle was someone I felt I could look up to. Here's the thing...take out the talking objects from the castle and you really only have a girl locked in a castle slooooowly coming to see her captor in a different light. Especially when you also take out the evil Gaston character. In this, he's a kind and caring man. This eliminates some of the conflict. Now all we have is the curse. And don't get me wrong, that was enjoyable. It was, in fact, merely the fairytale elements that kept me reading.The setup of a father losing his fortune forcing him to move him & his three daughters to a cabin in the woods was interesting. He goes missing while out hunting, so our Beauty character Yeva goes out to find him only to be captured by the beast. The beast is hoping she can break a curse placed upon him. Can Yeva even break the curse? And if she can, will she do it when all Yeva really wants to do is kill him?The writing was beautiful and quite lyrical. The ending, however, sort of lacked the magic I was hoping for. It all feels quickly tied up. I was torn with how to feel about  Hunted when the additional fairytale elements were so unique, unexpected, and really added something remarkable to a tale we know so well. I am having a hard time getting past the pacing problems. Regardless, I think those who typically enjoy fairytale retellings may still want to check this one out.