Beauty and the Beast but make it Russian.The Russian part . . . I really can’t say. Mostly because I don’t know anything about Russian culture, so I had no clue this was set in a Russian inspired world until I read some reviews—from which I also gathered that to some #OwnVoices reviewers the Russian influence was very lacking or non-representational.What I can say is that I did find the world building insufficient (or maybe it’s just me who doesn’t get it). The wintery setting made for a whimsical and atmospheric read. However, I felt like I never quite understood about the places where it all took place (the magical forest, Beast’s castle) as well as the magic and how everything worked.I feel like ever since ACOTAR, we’re just going to compare every Beauty and the Beast retelling with that series. So I’d say that this was also kinda like (the opposite of) ACOTAR in terms of family dynamics. Beauty was a huntress and the youngest of three sisters. Their relationship together and along with their father was heartwarming.What’s a miss for me is the fact that the plot never really took off. I felt like I was stuck in the introduction phase for most of the book. Then when we got through the rushed ending, I was like . . . waiittt, that’s it?! As much as I appreciated all the family related content, I also think it took away much of Beauty and Beast related plotline.I liked that Beast was an actual beast and that we got a few short bursts of his PoV. I liked his dynamics with Beauty, especially the time when she thought he was her savior and not her captor. The romance was sweet but also (still) strange. Not so much because of the Stockholm Syndrome, but like can you imagine falling in love with your dog or pet?Overall, this was a nice read, but I wanted more. It held close to the Disney original Beauty and the Beast even though it also did have its own spin. The captor vs. captive narrative is a tricky one to navigate, especially in the YA category. I didn’t find anything about this to be exceedingly alarming. Grab it if you’re in the mood for some light fairytale reading.(Read as an Audiobook)