“She was so tired after all. Tired of fairy tales, and magic, and empty castles. Tired of wanting so intensely that she didn’t know what she wanted.”Da da da DAAA…Please allow me to introduce you to the FIFTH La Belle et la Bête retelling that I’ve read! I know; it’s a lot. But it’s my favourite faery tale! Let’s see: Beastly by Alex Flinn, Cruel Beauty by Rosamund Hodge, A Court of Thorns and Roses by Sarah J Maas, Uprooted by Naomi Novik, and now…Hunted by Meagan Spooner! :D Some I’ve loved, some I’ve liked, and some I’ve hated, but I’m happy to announce that Hunted falls under the loved category. Agh! I’m so happy, right now! This was amazing! I know; I know what you’re thinking: Do we really need another La Belle et la Bête retelling? Well, let me tell you…the answer is a resounding yes! Hunted is now my second-favourite retelling of this faery tale, closely following Cruel Beauty, of course. But, ugh! Why did I put this off for so long? I was going to pick it up after The Bear and the Nightingale by Katherine Arden, but decided against it, after not enjoying it…stupid me! Russian faery tales definitely seem to be hit-or-miss with me, but I’m so relieved that Hunted turned out to be a hit! :D It was also extremely unputdownable…one more chapter, one more chapter, one more chapter, etc. While following the familiar structure of the Disney movie that defined the childhoods of many, Spooner also manages to make this a very new and fresh take, in the same token. In fact, rather than keeping the story true to its origins by setting it in France, it takes place here in rural, medieval Russia. Like Hodge’s Cruel Beauty, which integrated other tales into the story, such as Perrault’s Bluebeard and Greek mythology, Hunted integrates Russian folklore, as well. Two main stories drive the plot of Hunted: Gabrielle-Suzanne de Villeneuve’s La Belle et la Bête (French) and Alexander Afanasyev’s Tsarevitch Ivan, the Firebird, and the Grey Wolf (Russian). The French one provides the main framework that we recognise as the readers of this story, but the Russian one is constantly referenced by the characters themselves. I really enjoyed the tale-within-a-tale format.In addition, the language itself was hauntingly beautiful, sucking me in and making me constantly think that I was sitting in a snowy castle in the dead of Russian winter, only for me to look up from my book and see Halloween decorations outside my window, which was quite shocking, to say the least! “To the girl who reads by flashlight who sees dragons in the clouds who feels most alive in worlds that never were who knows magic is real who dreams  This is for you”From the moment that I read the dedication above, I was utterly entranced with this novel…This reinterpretation of the classic tale presents a slow cat-and-mouse game of Beauty, the huntress, and Beast, the hunted. Here, Beauty is no meek damsel-in-distress, waiting to be saved. Here, she’s the one who saves her prince from a tragic curse. Gaston is not the hunter, in this tale…Beauty (Yeva) is. A devourer of faery tales, she simultaneously loves the power and freedom that comes with hunting her prey in the woods. Like many protagonists we’ve come across in the past, she is resistant to marriage at such a young age, and feels misunderstood by those closest to her, especially her sisters. While they accept her unconventional and unladylike hobby, they also support her and whatever makes her happy. More than anything else, I enjoyed the familial bonds in this novel. In addition, Yeva has the most loyal dog, Doe-Eyes, by her side, who was the true MVP here!One night, when her father fails to return home from hunting, she resolves to find him…and encounters the Beast (Eovyn), who is an actual WOLF – snout, tail, and all. Wanting to avenge her father and return to her sisters, she decides to take over her father’s mission and hunt the seemingly unkillable Beast herself. Held captive in his castle, she takes advantage of her situation and bides her time, in order to expose his weaknesses and finally have her revenge. But is anything in life ever that easy? ;)One aspect of this novel that I LOVED was the slow-burn romance. And by slow-burn, I mean there isn’t a hint of romantic feelings between Yeva and Eovyn until the very last few chapters. Even they didn’t know what was happening until it hit them! Rather, their relationship is grounded in friendship and trust. I wouldn’t even say that there are elements of Stockholm Syndrome, as Yeva recognises that the two of them are quite dysfunctional. She tried to kill him repeatedly and he kept her prisoner for months. Neither one of them were wholly good or bad. They both had very light and dark parts of themselves that came out in certain situations. They have a mutual understanding of each other and recognise that they were the missing pieces in each other’s lives…and I think that it was just beautiful. <3 “She wept because she did not know what she wanted, and because she wanted everything.”The most prominent theme here is wanting. Beauty wants more: a bigger life, a bigger world, a bigger adventure…a bigger everything. Like many who experience wanderlust, she is unsatisfied with what she has and wants more from her existence. She can’t quite put her finger on it, but she has an inexplicable longing for something more. I, for one, also feel this way. I want something out of life, but I don’t precisely know what it is. As such, I highly recommend this to fans of La Belle et la Bête and other Russian faery tales. It's definitely being added to my favourites list! :D