“She moves like beauty, she whispers to us of wind and forest—and she tells us stories, such stories that we wake in the night, dreaming dreams of a life long past. she reminds us of what we used to be.She reminds us of what we could be.”dark; addictive; uniquethis is hands down my favorite beauty and the beast retelling so far. It manages to stick to the original story while having an extremely unique and beautiful twist to it by adding in Russian fairy tale and folklore into the main plot.Just giving you a prior head up here this doesn’t stick to Disney Movie kind of beauty and beastSO TRUST ME,,there are no talking teacups/ any household item here:The beast is not a pining softie in this one (I mean he still is but like in a subtler and endearing way) :[image error]There are no light-hearted breaking out into huge song sequences (bummer but still): This story is a much much much darker take on this story. The usual elements of the original tale are still retained in this but it is more fantasy based. This was such a beautiful story i can't praise it enough. The story had a few new elements that i thoroughly enjoyed. And honestly let me just list the reasons why you NEED to read this book:a) the gorgeous description&settingMost of this book took place in the beautiful castle during the winter time. And it was a cold and snowy setting. The other most used setting was the forest itself which was beautifully described.b) the sister loveThis is a newly added change that was not in the original tale as Belle does not have any sisters but it is definitely a welcome change. Unlike most fairy tales; these aren't your typical 'evil stepsister' trope they are strong independent women who love each other very much and are willing to go to great lengths to sacrifice their happiness if it makes the other happy. Honestly, some of the moments just made me have happy feels.c) DOGSYes!! There are dogs in this book and they play a really important part in this story and i love Doe-eyes so much. The dogs were so adorable and loyal and honestly just reading about the relationship that Yeva (Belle) shared with it is so sweet i just can't.d) YevaI am so pleasantly surprised by her character. Like Belle, she is beautiful, graceful and loves her father very much. But Yeva is just so badass she is an amazing huntress and loves to be in the forest and is in love with nature. Yeva is just very skilled and it was so amazing to follow her and see her in action. Yeva is intelligent and though she becomes vengeful in the middle it is so great to see her change her viewpoint.e) Russian fairy tales& folkloreThis was my personal favorite addition! The story itself was set in Russia and the main story that played a part in this book was the Ivan and the firebird one. Meagan Spooner manages to weave together these folklore into the tale and it was so beautiful OMG i'm in love.f) Beast & YevaTHEY WERE SO ADORABLE. I knew i was obviously going to end up shipping them but it was so amazing to see them interact with one another and i'm just so happy with the way that their relationship was executed and that ENDING i'm so happy i can just :') Overall, this book was amazing and i highly recommend if you are looking for a fast and fun retelling! This was amazing and everyone needs to read this!!Pre-reading:NEEDLESS TO SAY, i have a lot of love in my heart for this storySO THIS BOOK BETTER WORK OUT PS honestly how perfect was emma watson as belle like after watching the movie (a week ago?) i can't imagine anyone else pulling off belle's character so effortlesslyBR with the wHOle gang (my pun tho im laughing)the one who likes to dabthe one who thinks im a traitor (BUT IM NOT ;-;)the one who got bribed by cookies