Men! Wtf was that?? i feel like i've been slapped! i really loved first two book and now i get this??Don't get me wrong, there is a lot of good in this book, but most of it is way bellow from what i've come to expect from this series! And most of it is some of the worst moralistic crap i've heard in a long time! Like the whole sex thing. Every character who had sex was portrayed as in some way a evil whore or dirty or seriously wrong. OMG! Are you for real?? I just hope some young innocent girl doesn't read this because she will think that is wrong to have sex and that makes you a dirty whore, its not! Its normal and natural and there is nothing wrong in doing it! She'll think that when you finally do it, you have to be married and it has to be sanctified and holy and gods know what else or you'll be evil and it will corrupt you. Yea, riggght. More like make you a frigid condescending B-word. C'mon... This is wrong on so many levels.... I hated Elaine! I hated her frigid little perfect self-righteous stupidity from the second book, here it only gets worse! And her stupidity and cowardice gets elevated to a virgin Mary heights where she actually sacrifices her self to save the world by LOVE??? OMG...And the whole overuse of Love thing, it makes me wanna puke. A lot! Believe me, you'll get trucks loads full of love here, so much love...and all of it 'Real Love' It sickens me!Durzo Blint was awesome! I loved him, I was so upset when he dyed. Here he reappears only you have to wait until half of the book to see him. And hes not him self anymore. Ok i understand hes a changed man. But this Durzo is a sugarcoated shadow and the whole point in him reappearing is so he can become a flying dragon on moment notice and scoop down from the sky to save the day? I feel offended in his name, I think it cheapens his whole character! I liked him more when he was at his lowest point, because he was more real and more true to him self than here. Here he is supposedly happy and at peace and professes his love left and right... There was a lot of it that was so rushed, and there was so many holes filled by illogical 'make up on the spot magic'. Here are some examples:-whole book they keep repeating that the earring things are unbreakable and eternal and all-powerful, right? NO! In the end Vi breaks them, by willing it, on the spot and by doing so invokes some real love crap. And bam, it breaks. -Elaine gets her virgin Mary savior status by knowing Khali needs a whiling host so she can trap her, with guess what? Real love! How does she know that? As far as i know she runs away and gets captured and offered to khali as one of the choices for her host. It was a coincidence for her to get in that position.I much preferred first two books where the characters followed more natural, not rushed development. They where realistic there. Here they where all possessed with moralistic dogmas and ridiculously noble notions. That sounded quite wrong and not in character with their previous selves. There are parts of the book that are really good, and this is in no way a bad book. It has a lot of stuff happening, a lot of it original. I wouldn't be so angry if didn't love the first 2books so much. Now i feel cheated. But all in all i wish i never read this one!