me frantically panting after finishing this book be likeOH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD.Yeah…I knowThe truth is, I really have not been reading a lot of books that I have been loving recently for whatever reason, in fact, this is my first 5 star in a month, and my first five star for a fantasy book since I read {book: Warbreaker] by Brando Sando since the start of February. Needless to say, I’m very happy to have read this, and all the praise that I have heard about it are very well deserved.Lots of fantasy now does seem generic and it can be hard to stand out, yet The Rage of Dragons by Evan Winter does just that, and I think because of that, it’s had some very well earned success. This is also the author debut’s which only makes it the more impressive, and right now, I can’t wait for book 2 to be released on November 10th, 2020. The Rage of Dragons is a very military focussed fantasy, filled with action scenes, vigorous training and a tinge of political drama, which are all things I like in my fantasy books, yet I understand that the constant action and fighting is not suited for everyone, especially because of the volatile time that we currently are in. If anyone does need an escape to a wholly original world that breathes awesome, than I highly recommend that you pick up this book.It is Xhosa inspired fantasy, which is a culture that I know very little about, yet am intrigued to learn a whole lot more about now. I’m really loving at how authors are branching away from European based cultures and are basing their fantasies on the rest of the world, and frankly, I just find to be very refreshing to have these authors with backgrounds from different cultures to be writing these books, as they are awesome. Yes, lots of my favourite fantasies are heavily European influenced, yet now with more books being published by authors who are not white in a genre who biggest figureheads are predominantly white people(think Jordan, Tolkien, Martin, Sanderson), I am really loving books these new, far more refreshing takes on the genre(think Jemisin, Tahir, Winter).The characters in this book frustrate me, especially Tau, yet they are all have this ability that makes me to emphasise with them, to feel for their anger, pain and frustration and that makes them more real. Yes, he can be annoying, yet who isn’t slightly a pain sometimes in life. The rest of the characters in his group, called a scale, were all characters I ended up really enjoying and even just a few brief moments with them really helped me connect to them. One thing is that, I think due to the way the culture is set up and that they spend a good portion of the book training for combat, is that there is not many female characters, and we really only get two throughout the whole book. I do hope that going forward we do get more female characters since I really liked Zuri in this one and wanted for of her.There is a romance that does feel sort of like instalove, though I understand that the characters have known each other for ages before hand, and even during their romance, Winter shows that even though the two of them love each other, not everything is perfect. They disagree on things, they argue all the time on what is right and wrong, and because of that, the romance, which does seem to be urged forward by hormones and lust, gives it a more real element to it that often isn’t shown in romances in fantasy, since often, once two characters fall in love in fantasy, that’s it and everything is going to be perfect. That doesn’t happen here, and it makes me like the characters because of that. The world is very well built and I really enjoyed every moment that I spent in it and the author really managed to display the sort of military culture the Omehi possess. Furthermore, the Castes displayed the unfairness of life for some people, and it was interesting to see people further up being stronger than the people on the lower Castes, which is always an interesting concept to explore, in that people are quite literally born unequal in this world, which makes equality all the more difficult. The action scenes, of which there is an abundance of, are executed well and with skill, and they are precise, quick and extremely fast paced, which kept me wanting for more. They are concise and get straight to the point, without needless over explanations, yet providing the reader enough so that I could see that fight playing out. In fact, I liked Winter’s writing style as a whole, since it was never info dumpy, expect maybe on this one occasion, but nor was it overly descriptive, yet gave enough for the reader to picture what was required, yet never too much, so that it did not bog down the story.It’s an awesome Epic fantasy story, and if the rest of the series when it comes out(which I’ll be eagerly awaiting) also end up being this good or better, this could easily become one of my favourite fantasy series. As it stands right now, this is already one of my favourite books of the year so far. 9.5/10