I picked up a copy of this book after reading very positive reviews both on here and elsewhere online. ‘Maybe this is the next big thing!’ I told myself excitedly, as I pictured myself being the ultimate hipster being able to claim I’d read it long before it became cool. This is your archetypal fantasy story of a farmboy out to avenge the murder of his parent(s) against a backdrop of war and class oppression. If you’re looking for a wildly original story, this is not for you. If you’re looking for sword-swinging action, it most definitely is. The blurb promised a cross between Game of Thrones and Gladiator. I don’t usually take these marketing slogans seriously, and well you should not, as there is none of George Martin’s political intrigue and subtext to be found, and the promised dragons barely feature; although the Gladiator comparison is a fair one as it’s essentially the same story minus the compelling villain of Ridley Scott’s Oscar-winning film. The setting for Winter’s fantasy was an intriguing one. A fantasy novel with an African inspiration is a refreshing prospect in a genre saturated with medieval Europe rip-offs. However, I was mostly disappointed to find that this didn’t really break the trend – dragons, for one, are a feature of European/Asian mythology, and all the descriptions of crenellations and stone torch-lit tunnels just made me think of European castles. Though perhaps this is my imagination’s fault, I just didn’t see much in terms of a unique and memorable fantasy setting. This leads to one of the major problems I had with this book: everything felt skin-deep and superficial. The underlining theme of the book is struggle against an oppressive class structure, and, throughout, this is relayed to the reader via a wide array of nouns for the various classes and military/social roles. After finishing the 400-page novel, I still could not say what half of these words mean and what their role in the world is. What is a KaEid? What is the difference between an Inkokeliki and an Umbonqisi? I couldn’t tell you. I understand many of these words are pulled from real-world African examples. Which is fine, as is the general method of showing, not telling, but when they are thrown at the reader constantly you need a solid understanding of what these words mean if you’re to get to grips with what is happening and the world it is happening in. There are many, many lengthy action sequences in this book where I struggled to decipher what was happening because of this. There did not seem to be any complexity to the society beyond these words, and if there was, it was certainly not explored adequately. Maybe too much is expected of the reader here, and a glossary would have been extremely useful.My other major irk with this book was all the fights. There are simply too many. Of the 400+ pages of the book, I would guess at about 200 of these being solely devoted to descriptions of sword fights. This might be fine for some, and they are reasonably well-written, but for me they became a chore to get through by the second half of the book. Perhaps this was because the main character, Tau, became a Mary Sue of indescribable proportions by this point (seriously, I thought Red Rising’s Darrow was bad enough), which took any tension out of the action for the reader, but ultimately there is little variety for the reader to enjoy. Any development in the story is resolved with more sword fights, so if you've read one chapter you've basically read the entire book. The other problem with this devotion to endless descriptions of hacking and slashing is that it takes up too much space. Towards the end of the book, there’s a ‘twist’ where the main villain decides to betray the Queen. OK cool, this should be quite an interesting development. But no, both the villain and the Queen in question have both only had about three lines of dialogue apiece, and the reader subsequently has no vested interest in this betrayal. They simply are not given the time or the space in the novel for you to care, which results in the final set-piece of the story being something of a damp squib. There are not enough pages devoted to world-building. The reader is not given enough perspective of many of the settings or the world’s vernacular.That’s not to say I hated everything about the book. Some of it I found interesting. The magic system was intriguing and complex, if confusing in places, and I enjoyed how it tied together with the world’s class system, similar to Brandon Sanderson’s Mistborn series. The writing is passable, although I did roll my eyes at some of the ‘badass’ dialogue and a professional author really should know the difference between hanged and hung. Overall, I was glad to finish the book, which was disappointing as I was encouraged after reading the reviews it is getting. Maybe it just isn’t for me.