towmtf update: well, i read joan he's next book and i hated it ... so basically right now i am hardcore questioning my past self's taste !!!! literally can't even trust my past self to give my current self good recommendations... godwhy am i crying in the club right now????? how dare you joan (i think this might be one of my favorites of 2019) (it was)instead of a traditional review, here's reasons why you should just read this book🌸 joan's writing is so, so gorgeous and it creeps into your soul🌸 (it kind of reminds me of roshani chokshi's writing? but more practical)🌸 this literally has the most twisty plot ever. listen, I came into this book expecting a murder mystery and came out feeling like I'd walked through a hailstorm🌸 it's not only a murder mystery!! it has a fantasy plotline and centers on Hesina trying to figure out how to manage ruling her kingdom🌸 I love all of the characters so much.🌸 especially Sanjing. I would die for Sanjing. I love him so much🌸 seriously, I was not kidding. I love Sanjing even though he gets the least page time. 🌸 (oh I just realized I superimposed Li Shang onto Sanjing and it's kind of... fitting)🌸 also yeah this novel has some flaws, like certain unnecessary plot twists and Lillian's lacking characterization but I've become too obsessed with this book to rate it objectively🌸 by the way... the romance is kind of lackluster. I said it🌸 I just don't completely see the appeal of Akira as a love interest. I'm sorry, y'all. I really tried. I just kept picturing his brown hair as a rat's nest🌸 I also didn't really see any reception from Akira towards Hesina? he never really demonstrated his affection for her. I had so much hope for their ship but no🌸 Sanjing tho... why was the brother more attractive than the actual love interest🌸 Anyways. more importantly, Hesina's character was so well-done and I could feel her desperation and helplessness seeping through the pages🌸 and her realizations that everyone's not who they appear to be are just... so relatable. I love Hesina so much and she Truly Feels Like A Flawed Teen Character to me🌸 I would categorize this as kind of a coming-of-age fantasy🌸 I really loved so much about this book. the worldbuilding was honestly flawless and the lore of the empire was one of my favorite things to read🌸 I mean, this book also tackles institutionalized oppression and how it can be built-in so deep that it can never truly be removed🌸 also the most wild existential themes are present, yo🌸 like what the frick I came for an adventure and left with a hole in my soul and inescapable thoughts about legacy🌸 THIS BOOK SHOULD HAVE BEEN ON THE NYT BESTSELLING LIST. truly the greatest injustice of our timeTrigger and content warnings for death by poison, slavery, drowning, blood, cutting oneself, (institutionalized) oppression, parental neglect, and strangulation. why did lillian die though :(edit: ^^ this is a major spoiler btw...hi a physical arc of this appeared on my doorstep and i would like to say that i am a little emotional right now because i've wanted this so badly