EDIT:  01/13/13 Just saw how wrong some of my grammar were in this review and how I did not properly explained why I only gave this book 2 stars. So, I guess I shall rewrite it. Anyway, as of now, I shall warn you about this review I wrote. 1st: It is angsty. 2nd: there are a lot of wrong grammars. 3rd: I failed to explain my side logically. 4th: I think I misunderstood the ending (but that still didn't change my perspective to this whole trilogy). 5th: If you LOVE the ending of this book, I recommend  NOT  to continue reading any further. This review is full of rants towards that matter. So, until I rewrite this, you can't read this.  BUT  if you also dislike the ending, and reading quite a lot of wrong grammars is okay with you, then you may proceed. We might have the same perspective in this book. My Review:    Ok, I must admit, I only like this book. Not love or anything beyond like (which is unusual for the last two books of the Kane Chronicles trilogy totally made me a fan girl). This series made me interested in mythologies and discover Rick Riordan (who is my number one favorite author) and check out his other books and read one of the best book series in the world, the  Percy Jackson and the Olympians  series that totally live up in my expectations and gave every avid fan of Percabeth their satisfaction. But this… Oh Hades! Don’t even get me started on the Walt/Sadie/Anubis love triangle! Anyway, I’d like to reserve the criticisms for later. Let’s focus first on the positive side, shall we?I enjoyed this book. I would have given it five stars if I didn’t read what happened to Walt and Anubis. If you’re in love with Zarter (Zia/Carter) you’ll appreciate this book as much as I do (but sadly, I’m more in love with Sanubis and again, I’ll tell you later why I only gave this book three stars). There are some scenes that made me crack up like this:  “That’s my boy!” Set shouted. “Shut up, Father,” Anubis said.  Isn’t Anubis adorable? If you didn’t crack up on that one, well, you haven’t read the whole situation why they said that. So, I don’t blame you. Getting out of topic again eh? Back to the topic, there are so many unexpected things happening. It’s not that bad for a last book (though the ending hinted something for some future books) it totally live up to my expectations (if you don’t count the love triangle of Sadie). We met more and more Egyptian gods like Shu (ah, my favorite Egyptian god after Anubis) and Hapi. Where’s Tefnut? She’s my favorite Egyptian goddess and didn’t even appear in any book in this trilogy! It also helps us to know more about the world of Egyptian mythology with the Land of Demons, sheut (aka shadows being part of our soul) and many more. In romance, Rick Riordan did a great job on Zarter. I couldn’t help but to squeal whenever they have moments! Criticism part. My criticism is not about how the book is written, plot and/or other things but on the love triangle between Walt/Sadie/Anubis. I DISLIKE IT!!! Ever since I started reading The Red Pyramid, whenever Sadie and Anubis have moments, I always squeal, highlight them on the book and rereading it all over again and even adding some comments! I had (take note of the past tense) love Sanubis with all my life! Forbidden love always interest me and I had only read few forbidden loves that actually live up to my expectations like the true love between Ash and Meghan from the  Iron Fey  series. Now, that’s what I call a very interesting forbidden love! They did everything so that they can be together and Ash even went to the End of the World to have a soul so that he’ll be with Meghan forever! But this… Urgh! The Sanubis in this book is a  TOTAL disappointment!  Oh come on! Give me a break! I know that  Anubis made Walt as his host that made the dying boy’s life expand and both end up with Sadie and that they’re two inhabiting one body that are just in harmony thanks to their similarities and their feelings for Sadie and everything.  Puh-lease! THIS IS NOT WHAT AN ADDICTED SANUBIS FAN LIKE ME EXPECT! Why can’t the Egyptian gods just offer Sadie immortality and be a goddess to be with Anubis? After all Sadie deserved it! Why can Greek gods offer Percy immortality thanks to the heroic deeds (just like Sadie and Carter did) he did and Egyptians can’t? Because they can’t and Greeks can? Give me a break! I had supported Kane Chronicles since the first book was published. I waited for a year for the Throne of Fire and waited another one for the last book, hoping to find more Sanubis that’ll satisfy my needs. But no! It is  so  obvious that Sadie and Walt ended up together! And it is totally heartbreaking for a Sanubis fan like me. Walt had his own advantages! It’s his body, so when he kiss Sadie, it’s his own pleasure not Anubis’s! And Anubis? He’s just there watching them even if he’s in the same body. Poor boy! He doesn’t deserve that! I am so glad the book didn’t reach Philippines! I’m so glad I just found this in the internet! I’m so glad I spent my money I intend to buy for this book to my mom on Mother’s Day. As a  once  Sanubis fan, I won’t buy this book. And I thought Kane Chronicles is a great series! I don’t like RR’s new writing style in Romance, the protagonist ending up with his second love not the first. Anyway, that’s where my rant about romance ends. If there’s a new book in this series (which I slightly doubt but the ending totally says that there’s a next one) I’m not going to buy it unless I’ll find it interesting (which I highly doubt). That’s all. Though if RR will write a next book about a crossover between Kane Chronicles and Percy Jackson and the Olympians, I might buy it. Again, it hinted on the ending about Long Island and everything. Before I go, here’s the last chapter of the book. Thought you might wanna know what I meant with the Sanubis/Salt and hinted stuff.  HE’D CHANGED HIS LOOK AGAIN. His amulets were gone except for one- the  shen  that matched mine. He wore a black muscle shirt, black jeans, a black leather duster, and black combat boots-a sort of mix of Anubis’s and Walt’s styles, but it made him look like someone entirely different and new. Yet his eyes were quite familiar-warm, dark brown, and lovely. When he smiled, my heart fluttered as it always had. “So,” I said, “is this another goodbye? I’ve had quite enough goodbyes today.” “Actually,” Walt said,” It’s more of a hello. My name’s Walt Stone, from Seattle. I’d like to join the party.” He held out his hand, still smiling slyly. He was repeating exactly what he’d said the first time we met, when he arrived at Brooklyn House last spring. Instead of taking hand, I punched him in the chest. “Ow,” he complained. But I doubt that I’d hurt him. He had quite a solid chest. “You think you can just merge with a god and  surprise  me like that?” I demanded. “ Oh by the way, I’m actually two minds in one body . I don’t appreciate being taken off guard.” “I did try to tell you,” he said. “Several times. Anubis did too. We kept getting interrupted. Mostly by you talking a lot.” ““No excuse.” I folded my arms and scowled as best as I could. “My mum seems to think I should go easy on you because this is all very new to you. But I’m still cross. It’s confusing enough, you know, liking someone, without their morphing into a  god  whom I also like.” “So you do like me.” “Stop trying to distract me! Are you truly asking to stay here?” Walt nodded. He was very close now. He smelled good, like vanilla candles. I tried to remember if that Walt’s scent or Anubis’s. Honestly, I couldn’t recall. “I’ve still got a lot to learn,” he said. “I don’t need to stick with charm-making anymore. I can do more intensive magic-the path of Anubis. No one’s ever done that before.” “Discovering new magical ways to annoy me?” He tilted his head. “I could do amazing tricks with mummy linen. For instance, if someone talks too much, I could summon a gag-“ “Don’t you dare!” He took my hand. I gave him a defiant scowl, but I didn’t take back my hand. “I’m still Walt,” he said. “I’m still mortal. Anubis can stay in this world as long as I’m his host. I’m hoping to live a good long life. Neither of us ever thought that was possible. SO I’m not going anywhere, unless you want me to leave.” My eyes probably answered for me:  No, please. Not ever.  But I couldn’t very well give him the satisfaction of me saying that out loud, could I? Boys can get so full of themselves. “Well,” I grumbled,” I suppose I could tolerate it.” “I owe you a dance.” Walt put his other hand on my waist-a traditional pose, very old-fashions, as Anubis had done when we waltzed at the Brooklyn Academy. My Gran would’ve approved. “May I?” he asked. “Here?” I said. “Won’t your chaperone Shu interrupt?” “Like I said, I’m mortal now. He’ll let us dance, though I’m sure he’s keeping an eye on us to make sure we behave.” “To make sure  you  behave,” I snipped. “I’m a proper young lady.” Walt laughed. I supposed it was funny.  Proper  wasn’t the first word normally used to describe me. I pounded his chest again, though I’ll admit not very hard. I put my hand on his shoulder. “I’ll have you remember,” I warned,” that my father if your employer in the Underworld. You’d best mind your manners.” “Yes, ma’am,” Walt said. He leaned down and kissed me. All my anger melted into my shoes. We started to dance. There was no music, no ghostly dancers, no floating on air-nothing magic about it. Freak watched us curiously, no doubt wondering how this activity was going to produce turkeys to feed the griffin. The old tar roof creaked under our feet. I was still quite tired from our long battle, and I hadn’t cleaned up properly. No doubt I looked horrid. I wanted to melt into Walt’s arms, which is basically what I did. “So you’ll let me stick around?” he asked, his breath warm on my scalp. “Let me experience a typical teenage life?”“I suppose.” I looked up at him. It took no effort at all to slip my vision fort at all to slip my vision into the Duat and see Anubis there, just under the surface. But it really wasn’t necessary. This was a new boy in front of me, and he was everything I liked. “Not that I’m an expert myself, but there is one rule I insist on.” “Yes?” “If anyone asks you if you’re taken,” I said,” the answer if  yes .” “I think I can live with that,” he promised. “Good,” I said. “Because you don’t want to see me be cross.” “too late.” “Shut up and dance, Walt.” We did-with the music of a psychotic griffin screaming behind us, and the sirens and horns of Brooklyn wailing below. It was quite romantic. So there you have it. We’ve returned to Brooklyn House. The various catastrophes plaguing the world have lessened-at least somewhat-and we are dealing with an influx of new initiates as the school year gets properly under way. It should be obvious now why this may be our last recording. We’re going to be so busy training and attending school and living our lives, I doubt we’ll have time or reason to send out anymore audio pleas for help. We’ll put this tape in a secure box and send it along to the chap who’s been transcribing our adventures. Carter seems to think the postal service will do, but I think I’ll give it to Khufu to carry through the Duat. What could possibly go wrong? As for us, don’t think our lives will be all fun and games. Amos couldn’t leave a mob of teens unsupervised, and as we don’t have Bast anymore, Amos has sent a few adult magicians to Brooklyn House as teachers (read: chaperones). But we all know who’s really in charge- me . Oh, yes, and perhaps Carter a little bit. We’re not done with trouble, either. I’m still worried about that murderous ghost Setne, who’s on the loose in this world with his devious mind, horrible fashion sense, and the Book of Thoth. I’m also puzzling over my mother’s comments about rival magic and other gods. No idea what that means, but it doesn’t sound good. (Skip the last part)