There’s a lot wrong with this book I heard lots of praise about this book prior to reading it. It is supposed to be some kind of novel that is representative of female fantasy novelists, and the rising popularity of them. Apparently this novel is leading the charge for women writers claiming the fantasy genre. Well if that was true, which it isn’t, then this charge is a lost cause because this novel is incredibly average. Not to mention the fact that the actual forerunner of female fantasy writing has been writing books for over twenty years. By this I mean Robin Hobb. No doubt she is eternally indebted to Samantha Shannon for leading the charger for her. Whoever suggested such a thing was a complete moron. Ignore the absurd labelIt is an absolutely ridiculous label, so I’m going to pretend I didn’t hear about it that way I can review this sincerely, even if I didn’t like it very much. It is exciting in parts, but not very fulfilling overall. The novel begins with lots of awkward world building. The novelist throws a torrent of information about the world, the powers of the characters and the history of it at you in a horrible manner. She literally slams you with information before you’ve even began to picture the world it is set in. It bored me half to death an almost made me stop reading after a couple of chapters. However, I plodded on because the protagonist killed a couple of guards; this changed her life incredibly, which meant that the novel became marginally interesting. The protagonist of the novel is called Paige Mahoney, a terrible name I know, she is thrown into a prison after killing the guards, but it is not an ordinary prison. It is a cell for those that have special powers; they are called the clairvoyant or voyants for short. The powers range from summoning poltergeists to being able to enter the Aether. I would explain to you what the Aether is, but I’m not entirely sure. There was some boring dictionary like explanation at the start of the book that I immediately forgot because it was so uninteresting. Later she realises that everything she thought she knew about the world is a lie, and it is in actual fact ruled by a race of humans called the Rheph. Only one interesting characterThis is where the novel redeems itself slightly. The voyants are taken under the wings of the Rheph to train them up in protecting the world against some mysterious entity that comes from the Aether that wishes to eat everybody (no joke). A Rheph called the Warden chooses Paige. He is a complex character that is clearly divided in his loyalties. He is in a difficult situation, which forces him to obey someone he hates. This gives him a dark brooding effect, which is quite compelling. He has an interesting history, and if he had some point of view chapters then the novel would have been a lot better. I do hope in later novel that he has some point of view chapters because the only point of view character at the moment is incredibly bland. Paige is a very weak woman. Prior to being thrown into jail she was working for a crime syndicate that was blatantly exploiting her for her gifts. She is completely unaware to this obvious fact. Furthermore, when she is put in another situation that is similar to the first she almost develops a Stockholm syndrome effect. This was incredibly obvious that the novelist was going to go down this route, and I think it was an absolute terrible authorial decision to make.Moreover, a novelist who is supposed to be representative of female fantasy writers has written a terrible representation of women. She should have made her stronger. By doing this she has created a protagonist who seems to have only one redeemable quality, and that’s the power she is being used for. Indeed, she is flat, predictable and weak.I will read the next book in the series for one reason: to find out what will happen to the Warden. However, the prospect of there being eight books in this series does not thrill me. If the next book is the same I will never read anything by this author again. Hopefully it will give me a reason to carry on reading the series because at the moment this book leaves me with few.