3.5While this book was a bit slow in places, the details of the caste system and the tooth magic interested me enough to keep reading.Fie was a great character. She is a member of the Crow Caste- the lowest caste there is- tasked with travelling the roads to mercifully kill those who are infected with the plague. Interestingly, this plague never effects the Crows and rarely effects the highest class- the Phoenix’s. One day, her and her group- with her Pa as chief- are summoned to the palace and tasked with mercifully killing and taking the bodies of Prince Jasimir and Tavin (Prince Jasimir’s body double) who have been supposedly infected by the plague. Fie discovers that they have faked their deaths and now the Crow’s are more involved with the politics of court than they ever thought they would be, with awful consequences. Tasked with protecting these 2 men, Fie must travel with them and face and fight many obstacles that stand in the groups way from getting to a safe place. This book piqued my interest as the caste system in this book (all based on birds) was wonderfully detailed. The author focused on how Crows, being the lowest caste, were treated so unfairly by those “higher” than them. The author also detailed all of the threats that exist to a Crow’s life- sudden disappearances, brutal killings, not receiving education or proper jobs, threats to their lives and livelihood. Having Fie as a main character, who is part of the Crow caste, solidified the tough and unfair life of being a Crow, and having no freedom due to who you are born to. However we learn that Fie is a rare type of Crow- she is a Crow witch- which allows her to use the teeth from other castes and this gives her a variety of powers. The detail and explanations of what this tooth magic could do and what it was used for captivated my attention. The use of tooth magic reminded me of the Daughter of Smoke and Bone series by Laini Taylor (which I enjoyed) so I was highly intrigued by this book. This book was overall enjoyable, it piqued my interest with the caste system and tooth magic, Fie was headstrong and a realist, and there was some humour throughout the book.