This is the tale of Elric before he was called Woman-slayer, before the final collapse of Melnibone. This is the tale of his rivalry with his cousin Yirkoon and his love for his cousin Cymoril, before that rivalry and that love brought Imrryr, the Dreaming City, crashing in flames, raped by the reavers from the Young Kingdoms. This is the tale of the two black swords, Stormbringer and Mournblade, and how they were discovered and what part they played in the destiny of Elric and Melnibone - a destiny which was to shape a larger destiny: that of the world itself. This is the tale of when Elric was a king, the commander of dragons, fleets and all the folk of that half-human race which had ruled the world for ten thousand years.This is a tale of tragedy, this tale of Melnibone, the Dragon Isle. This is a tale of monstrous emotions and high ambitions. This is a tale of sorceries and treacheries and worthy ideals, of agonies and fearful pleasures, of bitter love and sweet hatred. This is the tale of Elric of Melnibone. Much of it Elric himself was to remember only in his nightmares. Elric should sit proudly in a fantasy Hall of Fame. In terms of influence on the development of the genre, Elric has few rivals. Before the rise of the moody albino swordman-sorcerer, there was basically a choice between the brutality of Conan and the knightly scions of Tolkien. In the footsteps of Moorcock I have noticed an increasing preference for anti-heroes, for more nuanced characterization, for 50+ shades of grey. He is reluctant to assume the power he inherited, introspective and plagued by ethical doubts. Even physically, he is sickly, needing daily potions to regenerate his strength. Elric turns his weakness into an advantage by becoming bookish, reading entire libraries on magic, one more reason to consider him atypical of the staple fantasy stable boy with a secret identity.  If the young emperor has found any advantage in his lifelong weakness it must be in that, perforce, he has read much. One aspect in particular makes me count the Elric saga a watershed moment in fantasy, a splitting of the mainstream in two directions: for Tolkien and his imitators the gods or Fate rule the destiny of the mortals. Elric rebels against prophecy and predestination, and argues for the supremacy of free-will and chance. The lords of the Higher Worlds have ambitions in our world. Though they have given me aid, of late, I fear them. I should like to see if it is possible for men to rule their own affairs. I should include in the list of anti-heroes other sword & sorcery founders, like Fritz Leiber or Jack Vance, but this would complicate my theoretical argument of the divided stream. And I don't want to focus too much in my review on generalities, because the appeal of the first Elric book is that in a couple of hundred pages he manages to build an epic scope to the story, to infuse it with a sense of wonder and adventure, to mix magic and gods with martial combat and human passion - love, greed, doubt, pride, friendship, hate. The epic begins by introducing the reader to the young emperor of 'Imrryr the Beautiful, the Dreaming City, capital of the Dragon Isle of Melnibone.', our future guide through the histories, races and sights of a hundred worlds or more. It may not be apparent in this first novel, but in the universe imagined by Moorcock time and space are flexible, full of portals to parallel realities and alternative timelines. Elric is like The Hero with a Thousand Faces - an avatar, a catalyst of change, a mythical figure that breaks and reconfigures what is real. He is also unique and memorable in his physical appearance:It is the colour of a bleached skull, his flesh; and the long hair which flows below his shoulders is milk-white. From the tapering, beautiful head stare two slanting eyes, crimson and moody, and from the loose sleeves of his yellow gown emerge two slender hands, also the colour of bone, resting on each arm of a seat which has been carved from a single, massive ruby. For a synopsis, my opening quote from the fictional chronicles of his life should suffice. It is also illustrative of the style of writing - a touch too florid at times but clearly the work of a young writer enthusiastic about the genre. I have read a few years ago a book that Moorcock cites as an important influence on Elric: "The Broken Sword" by Poul Anderson. There are indeed similarities in the language used and in the type of hero who refuses to accept predestination. Moorcock I believe is better at capturing the sense of wonder and discovery, as in the description of the 'Ship Which Sails Over Land and Sea' : The ship was tall and slender and she was delicate. Her rails, masts and bulwarks were exquisitely carved and obviously not the work of a mortal craftsman. Though built of wood, the wood was not painted but naturally shone blue and black and green and a kind of deep smoky red, and her rigging was the colour of sea-weed and there were veins in the planks of her polished deck, like the roots of trees, and the sails of her three tapering masts were as fat and white and light as clouds on a fine summer day. The ship was everything that was lovely in nature; few could look upon her and not feel delighted upon sighting a perfect view. Another defining characteristic of the Elric saga is the downbeat tone, the sense of an ending of an era: the last dragons are sleeping, the most beautiful city in the world will become a ruin, young lovers are separated and tortured, Elric himself is prone to depression and despair: Rackhir laughed and slapped the albino upon his black armoured back. "You are a gloomy comrade, friend Elric. Are all your thoughts so hopeless?""They tend in that direction, I fear," said Elric with a shadow of a smile. Don't expect jolly hobbits and lovable scoundrels. The Melniboneans are an old race and jaded to pleasure or ambition, only half-human, closer to Tolkien's elves in their inception, on their way out from the world scene. Elric is the only one who shows signs of a conscience and of curiosity, and these traits will make an outcast of him. Other possible limitations of the series:- it is addressed mainly to fans of sword & sorcery, so it's appeal outside the genre is limited- the secondary characters are under-developed- the style is not as polished and subtle as, for example, in the works of Jack Vance or Karl Edward Wagner. There is a lot of promise and beautiful passages, but this first novel is clearly an early effort.- it could benefit from a little more humour and less sadness- it might feel dated as a seventies story, with some drug experimentation and symbolism along the lines of : "Enter the Shade Gate, then you must seek the Tunnel under the Marsh which leads to the Pulsing Cavern. In that chamber the runeswords are kept." The sexual analogy of the womb and rebirth are clear enough.All in all, a masterpiece of fantasy, but with limited interest for the general public. I look forward to reading the rest of the Elric stories. As a last teaser, Moorcock has this to say about what lays in store for his albino wanderer: Elric's destiny has been forged and fixed as surely as the hellswords were forged and fixed aeons before. Was there ever a point where he might have turned off this road to despair, damnation and destruction? Or has he been doomed since before his birth? Doomed through a thousand incarnations to know little else but sadness and struggle, loneliness and remorse - eternally the champion of some unknown cause?