Oh Elric, Elric Elric.You have been sitting on my shelf for years, waiting patiently for me to take you down. All this time I ignored you, biased that you were old school and no longer relevant. Finally, because my book buddies brought up your name, I endeavored to give you my valuable reading time. Oh, how you engaged and enthralled me. Half a book in the first sitting, I could not put you down. Yes, you are old school fantasy and utterly cliched in parts, but the saying "they don't make em like they used to" holds true with the 'writing a story' versus 'writing a book'. Elric, your world sounds fascinating and I was loving being on Dragon Isles, even though I didn't get to meet any dragons as they were all having a Nanna nap during my time there. But since you have the classic loyal, stoic general with a title of Dragon Lord, I am hopeful that in the next book we get to meet the beauties. Speaking of beauties, Cymorill, oh she sounds delightfully.......yours. Not much spade work required there eh? Got her on a string mate! I have to admit, that she does sound a little 'old school fair maiden' but I can forgive that, because your coussin made up for it with his stupidly nefarious deviousness. Oh what a fool. I love the "muuhhahhhaaa, I am going to say aloud my plans to topple you and rule the world, because I have no fear, for I dabble in the dark arts". Elric my friend, whilst I was saddened not to meet dragons, I was thrilled to get to go on a journey with a ship that can sail across the seas and the land. That was fortuitous for you to get your hands on eh? No need to transfer the luggage when making land fall. Winner! And so Elric, we come to the end of the book and you are still a pretty nice guy. I think you are trying to do the right thing for your peeps. To be honest, they sound like a pretty awful bunch and you do need to work on getting rid of the perception that humanity has of your race. You know, the 'demon' bit? But you are taking the right steps for redemption. I for one, will be putting you back in the bookcase tonight and moving onto the next installment of your story. There are at least ten of your adventures on my shelf, so I am expecting you to become a shining example of using power for good, or become an evil tyrant following your peoples traditions. Or even somewhere in between. Either way, I can't wait. Nice to finally meet you Elric.