The Multiverse vs. Middle EarthMichael Moorcock has been dubbed the "anti-Tolkien," a label he has embraced. From aesthetics to ideology to literary methodology, his oeuvre can be easily seen as a total inversion of Tolkien's. The one important similarity between these British writers is that they both wrote fantasy stories. Tolkien's outlook is Eurocentric. Moorcock's is cosmopolitan. Tolkien is conservative to the point of reaction. Moorcock is a self-declared radical. Tolkien found Anglicanism too forward thinking and converted to Roman Catholicism. Moorcock found materialism too repressive and drifted towards quantum mysticism. Tolkien's great theme is the war of good against evil. Moorcock's is the struggle to balance Chaos and Law. Tolkien labored over his books for decades, meticulously sculpting his imaginary world, its languages, geography, history and myths; The Lord of the Rings exists to showcase his Middle Earth. Moorcock gutted out his fantasies in spasms of creative improvisation, producing worlds and books in just weeks or even days; the Multiverse exists to stage his tragic tales of the Eternal Champion.Moorcock's most famous character, Elric of Melnibone, however, can be seen as a point-by-point refutation of another pillar of the modern fantasy genre: Conan the Cimmerian. Conan is (famously) a barbarian from a savage land who wanders into civilization and usurps the throne of its mightiest kingdom. Elric is the hereditary ruler of an ancient decadent empire, who surrenders his throne to pursue the life of a vagabond. Conan is pulpishly strong and durable. Elric is weak, sickly, an albino who must rely on drugs (or vampirism) to sustain his life and energy. Conan dreads and detests magic. Magic permeates Elric's everyday reality.Conan's career culminates with saving the world from an undead sorcerer. Elric's with unleashing an Armageddon of sorcery that destroys the world and everyone in it. Michael Moorcock's career provides an interesting case study of negative influence.