It is the colour of a bleached skull, his flesh; and the long hair which flows below his shoulders is milk-white.Here is a funny piece of random information: my first introduction to the doomed albino and his demonic sword was not through literature but through music, namely the songs “Black Blade” (Blue Oyster Cult) and “Song Of The Swords” (Hawkwind). As someone who has always enjoyed pulp fiction and old school fantasy, I was very aware of Elric of Melniboné. He is, after all, one of the more iconic of the bunch, so it is a mystery why I only got around to reading any Elric fiction until so late in the game. But: better late than never. When Elric arrived back at his apartments it was to discover that Tanglebones had already laid out his heavy, black wargear. Here was the armour which had served a hundred Melnibonean emperors; an armour which was forged by sorcery to give it a strength unequalled on the Realm of Earth, which could, so rumour went, even withstand the bite of the mythical runeblades, Stormbringer and Mournblade, which had been wielded by the wickedest of Melnibone's many wicked rulers before being seized by the Lords of the Higher Worlds and hidden forever in a realm where even those Lords might rarely venture.It is easy to see that Elric has, to some extent or other, influenced many other fantasy characters. Off the top of my head I’m thinking of Geralt of Rivia (The Last Wish) and Malus Darkblade (The Daemon's Curse). I’m specifically saying “to some extent” because neither of the latter are exact copies, but there are definitely some overlapping traits that appear to be borrowed from Moorcock’s iconic anti-hero.But back to the book at hand. It was a fantastic read, to be sure. I’m not giving it five stars because the latter half of the novel had some elements that I found juuust a bit hokey. No deal breaker, but, for example the meeting with the Earth King Grome wasn’t nearly as cool as the meeting with the Sea King Straasha earlier in the book, and the battle with Pig, Snake and Thing was just a bit of an acid trip. More importantly though: I wasn’t quite sold on the Mirror of Memory, which is actually quite a huge plot device, explaining how Elric hadn’t been able to locate Yyrkoon. Anyway, these are small gripes and I’m going into detail that is irrelevant to the review. In the end it was still a fantastic read and I highly recommend it to anybody who hasn’t read Elric yet. Especially if you enjoy the older stuff, but with a bit of a dark bent. I do think, however, that I should read the short stories next, before moving on to the next novel; Elric seems like a character that would translate extremely well to the short form.And in the centre of the cavern, hanging in the air without any support at all were two swords. Two identical swords, huge and fine and black.