This is THE classic sword and sorcery tale that came about in the early 1960s. Note that I am referencing when Elric first appeared which was in Moorcock’s novella, "The Dreaming City" (Science Fantasy #47, June 1961 (Wiki).Note that this is one of my early reviews so the format is different. CONCEPT: Very interesting. This one was done in the 60s before there were a lot of Sci fi/Fantasy writers. Moorcock is definitely one of the older writers and his works range in quality though fortunately this one is quite evocative of the genre.MARKETING APPEAL: This story came about in the 60s, I believe, when pulp sci fi magazines were a big thing; I doubt it made a lot of money at first but it became a cult classic. Elric appealed to readers b/c: (1) Unlike Tolkien, it dealt with grayish characters; no big struggle between good and evil; more of protagonist vs. Antagonists; (2) it dealt in an unknown world where there were lots of cool planar areas; (3) Elric was somewhere between good and evil; and (4) the swords and context of the storyline were actually quite well done.SCORING: Superb (A), Excellent (A-), Very good (B+), Good (B) Fairly Good (B-) Above Average (C+), Mediocre (C ), Barely Passable (C-) Pretty Bad (D+), Dismal (D), Waste of Time (D-), Into the Trash (F)DIALOGUE: B+ STRUCTURE: A- HISTORY SETTING: B+ CHARACTERS: A- EVIL SETUP/ANTAGONISTS: B+ EMOTIONAL IMPACT: B; SURPRISES: B+ MONSTERS: A PACING: A- THE LITTLE THINGS: A OVERALL STYLE: A- FLOW OF WORDS: B+ CHOICE OF FOCUS: A- TRANSITIONS/FLASHBACKS/POV: B COMPLEXITY OF WORDS/SYMBOLISM/THEMES: A- OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A- DIALOGUE: Dialogue was pretty good. Sometimes it would get formal but in other times it would relax a bit. Overall though, it didn’t get too contemporary as some authors are very guilty of doing. I hate it when slang or sayings from our times are used if it's supposed to be a totally different world. PACING: The book is sparse to begin with; only 160 pages but it moves fast. I think the pacing is great. Of course, the pacing is so good b/c Moorcock doesn’t give us a lot of details. Everything is so succinct that I wonder if he ever wrote screenplays. Sometimes though; I’d like more details.Have to be fair here in comparison to authors who have meatier texts; 160 pages; it’s easier to move fast compared to 900 pages as the typical epic fantasy. And when Moorcock was writing it was for magazines with limited space so I'm not going to dock his grade for it.OVERALL STRUCTURE: First half is Elric dealing with his evil cousin and trying to deal with Melnibonean attitudes which disturb him. The latter half is rescuing Cymoril (the love of his life) from Yrkoon and acquiring the long lost soul blades. For the most part, I didn't have any problem with the story structure of this series. It was a pleasurable read and while it wasn't great (Zelazny) nor superb (GRRM) it did fall between good and very good. Rousing dark swords and sorcery.COMMENTS: Apparently, Moorcock was never big on Tolkien so he took the opposite approach in his works; far darker; less details; more gore; not as happy.What follows are spoilers and is intended for people reading this who don't remember the novel too well and wish to go down memory lane. *** SPOILERS ***SYNOPSIS: Elric of Melnibone is Emperor of an island kingdom of sophisticated people whose culture is decaying. While he prefers to think of higher matters, his cousin, Yrkoon, has designs to seize the throne.So when a fleet from the Young Kingdoms attacks Dragon Isle, Elric calls forth his army and his fleet to ambush the barbarian fleet. After they drive the enemy away Elric only wishes to go back, but Yrkoon angers him by suggesting he is a coward. So, with a heavy heart, he agrees and they go off to sink the enemy fleet.But during that raid, Yrkoon betrays Elric, when he is wounded, and sends him overboard in full armor. Looks like the end for Elric BUT . . .	. . . he calls upon the Lord of the Water Elementals. Using magic almost forgotten by his people, the Lord of the Water Elementals assists him, returning him to the shore.Yrkoon is removed from his short time on the throne, forced to eat the flesh of one of his soldiers and is then watched. But, even when things seem to get better, Yrkoon betrays them, steals Cymoril and escapes. Elric uses magic to try and trace him but it doesn’t work. He sends out scouts and even considers using the dragons (slumbering powerful beings) but all to no avail.Finally, he calls upon one of the Lords of Chaos, Arioch, a young smiling blonde haired man, who agrees to help Elric in return for his services. Elric agrees. He then calls upon the Lord of the Water Elementals and is given a ship that travels over land and water.Elric and his Captain of the Guard, as well as some troops, locate Yrkoon in one of the Young Kingdoms and set out. After having a problem with the Lord of the Earth Elementals (who is brother to the other Lord and who believes the ship belongs to him), Elric is told his ship will no longer work on land. So, Elric and his soldiers go on foot and finally reach the town in secrecy. It’s also discovered that Yrkoon has the Mirror of Memory (which traps the memory of any who look at it) set up above the city. No wonder no one remembers coming to this town.A big fight ensues. Elric cleverly blindfolds his men so that they aren’t affected but the rest of the soldiers are affected (Yrkoon turned the mirror on the town). Yrkoon then escapes to another world; Elric follows and comes across a red priest who has been trapped there for a long time. After a fight in town, they enter a cave, go through a womb and find the two magical swords (taken away a long time ago but once belonging to Elric’s people; STORMBRINGER and MOURNBLADE). Yrkoon and Elric duel; Elric wins in the end but his sword demands the blood of his cousin.Elric controls the sword and for now, conquers the blade but it will be an ongoing battle for his soul and already tainted morality.