After reading and having my hair blown back by The Swords Trilogy (The Knight of the Swords,The Queen of the Swords and The King of the Swords), I decided to dive into the adventures of Moorcock's most famous avatar of the Eternal Champion, Elric of Melnibone.This first installment serves as a nice introduction to the contemplative albino sorcerer, who rules the ancient, powerful land of Melnibone. It was a nice surprise to learn that in the never ending, multi-dimensional cosmic dust up between the Lords of Order and the Lords of Chaos, Elric's people, the Melniboneans, are aligned with the bad guys at Chaos and are viewed by the pesky, upstart humans as evil, a perception that has considerable merit. I thought it added a nice shading to Elric's introduction as an anti-hero by showing his as a moral outsider to his own people.   Elric, who assumed the throne upon the death of his father, has always been “uncomfortable” with his people’s darker ways and their allegiance to the Lords of Chaos. While no angel by human standards, his appetites have never run to the less savory customs of his people making him somewhat of a radical among his people. When he tries to introduce reforms to his society, he causes all kinds of pissed off among the "old guard" who view him as weak upstart and troublemaker. This sets up one of the fundamental themes of the book as Elric struggles with his identity and his place in a society in which he does not feel fully at home.As with The Swords Trilogy, Moorcock's writing is lush and lyrical without being long-winded. The prose is also infused with just a hint of melodrama that works very well for this kind of sword and sorcery story.  In addition, the world-building is jam-packed with idea and concept tidbits that are wonderfully and really add flavor to the narrative.  I have become a big fan of Moorcock's style and plan to revisit the world of Elric...often. One of my favorite Moorcockian nuggets from this book was the concept of the “dream couch” that is used by the Melnibonean rulers. On the dream couch, an hour of "real" time can be the equivalent of “ten thousand years or more” of subjective time to the person using it. It is on the dream couch that the Melnibonean rulers (including Elric) learn the arts of sorcery, combat and other skills that would normally take them more than a lifetime to learn. I nearly splooged when I read this and thought the concept was a terrific way to plausibly show (within the context of the fantastic) how a young Elric could have attained such a high degree of badassness and jedi mastered so many talents in such a short time. Moorcock's amazing concept was not only fun to read about, but provided credibility for the rest of the story and I was completely sucked in from there. I've always thought that good fantasy should make us suspend our disbelief, not our intelligence. This is GOOD FANTASY. Bottom-line, this is another high quality sword and sorcery effort by one of the best to ever write in that genre. 4.0 stars. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. P.S. As a final note, I want to point out that I listened to the audio version of this book read by Jeffrey West (with an introduction by the author) and the quality of the reading was really superb. It included music in the background during the entire reading which could have been a big distraction but in this case added significantly to the “ambiance” of the story. I highly recommend it if you have the chance to check it out.