I realy wanted to like this book.*SPOILERS*I was hearing the usual things that everyone hears about Elric : it's supposed to be the birth of dark fantasy, its hero is complex and morally ambiguous, there are adult themes, and so on, and so forth. And I found almost nothing to like about this book.The characters were worse than two dimensional : the fragile princess that gets to be rescued, the evil moustache-twirling cousin, the noble right-hand man, and Elric himself, a brooding, relentlessly emo hero with no likeable features about him whatsoever. I thought he was supposed to be complex! Instead, he clearly enjoys killing his way to anything, has nothing worthy to quest about and his supposedly "philosophical" musings are only skin-deep. The worst thing might be that he doesn't seem to care about anything else than himself. You have to be a VERY good author to make such a hero compelling to the readers. I was also highly intrigued by the fact that he's supposed to be physically weak and almost crippled without his elixirs, I thought "a crippled hero, now THAT's interesting". But in the first half of the book, he already has a cool shiny sword that renders him strong and fast and physically perfect, so that one remaining conflict? All gone.I didn't understand any of Elric's motivations. Why would you decide to be noble and leave your crazy cousin alive, only to kill it several chapers later while screaming "monsteeeeer!"? Why leave your girl in the aformentioned crazy and incestuous cousin's hands and then curse yourself when she gets killed? I didn't understand anything Elric did or felt or thought, and I just didn't care, as he was one stupid, selfish, whiny, unlikeable bastard.The world-building was laughable. The Chaos/Order dichotomy is the most trite thing ever, and of course, that doesn't make it bad in and of itself, you can always add new twists on old tropes. However, here, it's done in a dull way. The story is told in a jerky and hyperactive way. Every other minute, Elric is in trouble, and a new side-kick/demon is invoked to move things along, potentially intriguing creatures, ennemies and people are presented in two seconds and thrown aside one second later, never to be heard about again.Even worse, I've found plenty of strange errors or at least extremely unclear passages. Things like time and space don't always make sense, and it's not because of magic or something. There is one particular instance I remember now : Elric & co arrive to some ancient island and spend DAYS walking from its shore to the city that's in the middle of it. Then, some events later, Elric sends one of his men to go back to the boat on the shore and tell what happened to the men who remained there, and the messenger is gone and back BEFORE MIDDAY. Those sorts of errors just make me think that the author was in hyperactive fanboy mode, writing as quickly as possible to showcase all his cool creatures and magic tricks, without bothering with earthly things like editing or doublechecking your story's consistency. It certainly doesn't make me respect him. To sum it all, I felt like I was reading some teenager's fanfiction. An imaginative teenager, of course, one who recently got into D&D and wanted to showcase all the cool stuff he could possibly imagine. Sorry, I just couldn't get ito Elric's nonsensical, gleefully fanboy-ish and flat world.