I love other people's excitement about things. I find it delightful, and engaging. When that passion turns into an insistence that  I  will love those things, that I  must  love those things, I get obstinately, irrationally resistant. I jokingly ascribe this to my trip through the 90's - that time of angsty music, angry plaid and baggy Levi's so weighted with indifference that they could hardly be bothered to hold onto our hipbones. The truth is, though (despite a lingering love of plaid), that I was never angsty, rarely angry, and enjoy being able to walk quickly without mooning anyone. What I  am is consistently, habitually, nearly instinctually contrarian. It's honestly a problem, (albeit a fun one), and I've been working really hard at taming the urge, a little.I was introduced to Moorcock by a rabid fan many years ago, and his persistent insistence that Elric was  THE  shit, that it would be heresy to call myself a fantasy fan if I didn't enjoy it...well, this pretty much guaranteed that I would read it with as much indifference or scathing disdain as I could muster. And so I did, and thought it just so much melodramatic tripe.I was wrong.This really is seminal sword and sorcery. The sheer imaginative power of the story is tremendous. I first read this coming off a rip of Martin, Jordan, and Goodkind, and the difference in worldbuilding is honestly remarkable. With grand but stark language, Moorcock manages to convey a richly envisioned world using only about 20% of the words that those other Purple Prosers use, and the reader is thrown in without elaborate explanations of how everything works. ( Though, there are some quirks in Elric, too -  "The Warrior Priest Of Phum drew a red kerchief from within his tunic and blew his nose for some time. When he had finished he put down a hand, helped Elric to his feet, and began to walk along the rim of the marsh, keeping the black monument ever in sight"  Wtf? I giggled a lot over this.) It has the feel, often, of a fable or an oral tale, and the tone in which it is told stands up well despite the 45 years that have passed since it was first written. I'm really glad I gave Elric another try, and wasn't purposefully resistant. I'm curious to see where his story goes from here.