Reading this a second time after reading quite a few other iterations of the Eternal Champion multiverse really hits differently. On its own, Elric can be a vague, confusing and bizarre experience that feels like reading a fever dream in motion. Read in the context of the greater multiverse, you begin to piece together all the missing gaps, mind-bending world building and the strange array of mysterious magic, demons, sorcery and evil gods. I enjoyed it even more on my second reading because I now have a much better grasp on how this universe functions.Elric is a cynical and melancholy king, heir to a nation whose 100,000-year rule of the world ended less than 500 years hence. Born as a crippled albino do to inbreeding, he's kept alive only by powerful drugs and potions. Elric is a reluctant ruler, but he also realizes that no other worthy successor exists and the survival of his once-powerful nation depends on him alone. Elric's cousin Yyrkoon has no patience for his physically weak kinsman, and he plots constantly to seize Elric's throne by lethal force. Thus begins a power struggle between Elric and his wicked cousin, both wielding incredibly powerful swords by the names of Stormbringer and Mournblade.On a surface level, it's a straightforward sword & sorcery tale. The characters are simplistic and the plot is all about badass dudes with magic swords fighting monsters, wielding forbidden sorcery, traveling through nightmarish dimensional portals, getting revenge and looking awesome while doing it. It takes pride in its simplicity and isn't afraid to flaunt its flashiness. Its prose and settings are heavily influenced by classic fantasy and horror such as Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos and Robert E. Howard's sword & sorcery tales. It's a fun read.On a deeper level, you realize that the characters are intentionally one-dimensional, as they are nothing more than set pieces for higher powers playing games with human lives. In the grand scheme of the universe, they're essentially fragile little puppets for gods to do with as they please, regardless of the amount of death and suffering it causes. While the simplistic characterization and blunt Shakespearian dialogue can be a turn off to people, I eventually learned to appreciate the unique style in which the story is told.