Well...okay. This one has been on my radar for some time. It has a mixed bag of reviews and reviewers. many love it some hate it and a few fall all along the scale in between. It's one of those I kept meaning to get to but always had "other stuff' ahead of it.What we have here is another in the current flood of books that strains to be dark and gritty. It accomplishes this...in spades...as the saying goes. This book is not only gritty it stands by your elbow the entire time you're reading and yells into your ear "SEE HOW DARK AND GRITTY I AM!"The book revolves around a warrior who was a hero that saved his city only to have the city find out he was gay and try to kill him. He has lived as an outcast now for 10 years all because of his "gayness".He's also bitter. It seems our hero is of a well known family which ultimately kept the great unwashed from being able to kill him but it did not stop the horrific killing of his best friend and lover. Thus when he's needed by the very people who turned on him and turned him out before his feelings are a bit...mixed. He's is let us say ambivalent. ("One man, alone, betrayed by the country he loves, now their last hope in their hour of need.")Now don't get me wrong this book is not entirely concerned with gay sex. No this book is chocked full of all kinds of sex scenes. There's heterosexual sex, bondage sex, master and slave sex (this is between a literal master and the slave he owns rather than mere bondage sex...though bondage is often involved and consent is definitely not an issue)... We have gentle sex, rough sex, willing sex, unwilling sex, loving sex, recreational sex and so on. You get the idea. Not only is there blood, grit, darkness, bitterness and violence there's...well sex.There's so much here that I didn't find it titillating I ultimately found all the "copulation" boring. So at least in my case I actually found the book a bit slow and at times tedious. The story is one we've seen before in fantasy lit but it's a good idea and could have been done better. I hold out hope for a bit more balance and better pacing on the next outing.Just me of course as I said the ratings on this tend to spread out a bit...so maybe see what you think. Not really one I got into.