PREPARE FOR A RANT.Nothing says !!MALE AUTHOR!! like a sex act in almost EVERY. SINGLE. CHAPTER and women ALWAYS described first and foremost by their heaving, always engorged breasts.I'm so mad.A Summary:- Characters are never properly described-Allusions to the past make you feel you missed an entire book/trilogy before this -Plot is hard to make out-Sex nudity sex boobs rape sex boobs groping sex obscene paintings boobs rape nudity sex ETCIn further detail:CharactersHaving read this book, I still have very little idea of what ANY of these characters look like. I was 300 pages in before I realised one of the characters was black. That seems like something I should have known. Other than that, the dudes have guts and the ladies have heaving breasts. It is very hard to follow a story with multiple characters when you have no idea what any of the characters actually look like.Allusions to the PastThe setting of this book is about a decade after a big battle in which all the main characters were heroes, to the extent that they killed a dragon and led armies to great victory. Now they're old and essentially past their prime but things drag them back into the fold somehow.I honestly had to double check that there wasn't another book or series set in the same world with these characters. I still feel like there is and I just missed it. Because there are so many references to things that happened in the past that are more confusing than scene-building. For example, how is it that they killed a dragon and it was a big deal and then there is just zero other references to dragons?! Also who/what are these Lizard people and where are they now? Admittedly, I skimmed a lot of the political rants because I could not make heads or tails of any of it. There are so many names for people, places, things, etc that I could not keep track one bit. There is so much information and none of it is explained clearly enough to get a true picture of this world.PlotSo, as mentioned above, things are very messy and confusing. Our main protagonist, Ringil, is drawn out of the quiet life by the search for his cousin. This happens within the first few chapters of the book, yet we see almost zero progress in this quest aside from Ringil insulting people and either getting into fights or getting into bed with them. I liked the steppe dude and his basic story of sibling rivalry but the third main character? I just honestly had no idea what was going on with her. Something about being a lapdog for the emperor. *shrugs* She also has a lot of names that I honestly could not be bothered even READING let alone mentally pronouncing properly.Sex etc.DON'T EVEN GET ME STARTED.What IS it with male fantasy authors needing to live out their every pornographic fantasy in the books they write? There was 100% NO NEED for this level of debauchery. Also, WHY are fat, ugly, has-been heroes irresistible to one and all? Get outta here.ConclusionThis book was just so heavily overshadowed by all the sex, rape and acts of sexual subservience that there was no room left to develop plot, characters or the world. A complete mess from start to finish.Target audience: dudes who love 'anti hereoes' who are actually just unappealing men who get laid a lot; guys who say they like 'gritty' fantasy but actually just like lots of death and sex; readers who prefer sex and violence over plot and world-building.