Abercrombie's, Lawrence's (especially), Salyards's and Weeks's fans, this may be the next grimdark series for you. There is irony in all its forms, gallows humor, smoke gray morality, swearing, religious satire, subverted fantasy heroes, assorted trigger warnings and bucket-loads of cynicism.Speaking about this first book what I liked the most are the opening line, the world-building and the presence of well-rounded adult characters. The protagonists are not in their twilight years of course, but they are old enough to have had their share of life’s experiences and, in particular, of normality in the aftermath of heroic fame.The main lead is Ringil, a legendary swordsman (yup! Apt, isn’t it?) who lives off his fading deeds in a backwater tavern. He also happens to be openly gay in a world where homosexuality is a capital offence; inevitably, his sexual orientation defines his social behavior and his very being, outweighing his belonging to a noble family and his reputation as a warrior. This, and Ringil’s decision to flaunt it in the face of cultures steeped in bigotry, is a key element of the story.“you don’t go queer baiting when your quarry has a reputation for rendering trained swordsmen into dogmeat at the drop of a gauntlet.”Then there is Archeth, the embittered, drug-addicted woman adviser who was left behind. Half-human and long-lived, she is another very conflicted person who is defined by her biology, preferences and heritage; lastly, we have Egar the Dragonbane, former hero and now estranged chief of his home tribe. With a midlife crisis in full swing, he questions the principles that have driven him so far; he’s probably the character with less depth and emotional scars, and I still liked him very much.The three of them played a pivotal role in saving the day against a global menace almost a decade prior, but now they’re just an inconvenient legacy.Such an endearing start :)Seemingly unconnected events cast them upon the path of action, and this group of misfits struggles to find purpose anew, bereft of the illusions of youth but armed with a dose of fatalism and anger which I truly relished. They are full of contradictions and real.Actually, the whole cast vary from the utterly abhorrent to the truly questionable, anyway the narrative is very intriguing and little is revealed upfront. Another preeminent feature is the aspect of sexuality, deeply explored in its many forms... So, it’s nice to find LGBT protagonists in a book which, I guess, is marketed toward a male audience; it's also choice that can backfire or lead to controversy because it's very easy to err when dealing with such themes (you know, relatability, accuracy of portrayal, avoidance of stereotypes....A fantasy book with a male MC fooling around with women is not cause for much comment. One with a woman (over?)addressing her desires is questionable, but it’s not uncommon. Other sexual stirrings? Debatable).I appreciated the attempt to provide with main characters that are not standard, on many levels, but to have 2/3 of them also uncomfortable about their same-sex preferences felt like an overkill (and I add this while reading the third book).The world building is very good, the kind that allows for inference without generating jarring confusion, and I always love a good puzzle challenge! Unfortunately at the outset the narrative style didn't work for me, I didn’t like the way the story unfolded and its erratic pace: some parts were too rushed, others too slow, and the fact that the boundaries between past and present twisted and blurred didn’t help. The descriptions though, were very vivid and skilled.There are also unnecessary scenes for shock value's sake (of both the sex and gore variety), grimdark it may be, but the author straddles a fine line here between a healthy serving size of violent amorality and plain over-the-top nastiness. Same goes for Ringil’s ruling passions, the story shows more than needed to drive the point home about our disinclined hero’s longstanding trauma and self-destructive attitude.For all that, after a while my perceptions changed and I simply fell into the rhythm of the story, its irregular timeline grew on me, as did the three third-person POVs and I’m glad I’ve followed through: if you give this book a try, at least reach the half mark before deciding whether to go on or to give it up for good.This story is brutal, bleak and full of unsavory stuff – which I liked; there are a few more vulgarities than necessary, too, and I'm not overly impressed with the rushed finale, but the characters, the setting and the tight plot with its many tantalizing bits and few answers gave me a compelling case of the curiosities.Books—the warm, leather-skinned weight of them in your hands, the way they smelled when you lifted them close to your face. The unfeasibly heart-jolting shock once, as a tome fell heavily open at some much-visited page, divided itself neatly in two blocky halves along the spine—and you thought, guiltily, that you’d broken it.