Given that up till this day, it took me ages to finish The Invisible Life of Addie Larue for how boring and repetitive it is, it’s a surprise that I find myself enjoying this one! Gallant was ominously and darkly written, yet it was also warm and tender. It follows a non-verbal young girl, Olivia Prior who grew up in an orphanage before she was brought back to Gallant and uncovered the secret and the mystery of her family. This novel progressed swiftly enough to retain my attention, albeit a bit slow. It was conveyed in a suspenseful manner, and the delicate tension wouldn't deter you from continuing as that's what made Gallant so captivating. The plot was straightforward, but it can be seen that Schwab took a long span and diligence to develop the world.Also, not to spot the elephant in the room, but Gallant's strongest suit is definitely Schwab's writing style. Every word is carefully chosen, and every turn of phrase conjures up images that I am rendered speechless. I've heard many times how people called her a master storyteller but bear false witness when I read Addie Larue, but this novel knocks me props out from under. I also enjoyed the unique character that Oliva is and appreciate that Schwab didn't end up relying on the old stereotypes and tropes that frankly everyone is tired of seeing from a mute character. In fact, the absence of Olivia's voice will force you to hunt for answers outside the characters. It keeps the visual aspects of things in Gallant going strong. Despite the praises, I still find the book to be overly simplistic and uninspiring in comparison to the buzz surrounding her work. When I first read the summary, I had a different impression than after reading the outcome which pivots more on Olivia unearthing the Gallant. I also wished for the supporting characters to be given more substance, but alas was just there to fit as a piece to the story. Gallant is rich, gothic, and atmospheric. This is a work that feels almost archetypal in the style of great children's or young-adult tales, complete with unearthly drawings. The inkling of the Death as a cross-over from her other works was also such a brilliant move. It keeps the excitement if you have always been Schwab's fan.