Unpopular opinion time! Meaning I liked it, didn't love it like everyone else in the world! Damn it all!I was pretty excited for this book to come out. The love triangles in the books get on my nerves so I wasn't drop everything and lets read it now. I just wanted to get through it at one point. I love Kit's character. I think he's funny and coming into his own at being a Shadowhunter. I loved that Jace and Clary made another appearance, but I'm worried at one of the things that was told in confidence about a death. It just about broke my heart and I'm wondering if that will come up in the next book a million years from now. There is something dreadful that happened at the end of the book and I don't even know what to say. It's sad, okay?I just wish that Emma and Mark could be together. That's who I WANT! I'm tired of reading about Kieran, Mark and Christina. I love all three characters but I want to see Kieran with Christina because the times they were together there seemed to be something there. Something almost sexy and hidden. Emma and Julian, I just don't. I love Julian for all he does for the family but I just don't find him as a person that stokes my fire. <-- yeah, I said that. I love the things that Kit, Ty and Livvy got up to together with the exception of the bad things. I hated that Centurion, Zara, with a passion. I wanted to drop kick her off the roof. The Centurion's had a plan set up and it wasn't a good plan. Not all wanted to go along with it so there's that. Arthur is still nuts but he did some cool things and you just have to love him no matter what. Diana was awesome and stepped up and put that Zara in her place and did whatever she could to save the kids. Magnus and Alec made an appearance as well. I always love Magnus so he can make an appearance at all times =) There's a little bit of fighting and things that need to be taken care of and some evilness, but I felt like it was more about all of these people and their triangles. I just don't know. Maybe I will read both books over again when the other one comes out in a million years from now. I'm still really sad about that ending. I thought it was going to be a different sad ending but it wasn't and it took me by surprise and it's not a good thing =( and we have a Sigh. . .MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List