“He caught her by the wrist, brought her hand to his bare chest. Splayed her fingers over his heart. It beat against her palm, like a fist punching its way through his sternum. “Break my heart,” he said. “Break it in pieces. I give you permission.”” The hardest part of reading this book is you have to put up with an emotional influx, from what Clare always tangles the love of the main characters like Jace and Clary, or Jem and Tessa and Will, I am certain that Julian and Emma will break you even more like no one can. Lord of Shadows represents a continuation after what happened in Lady Midnight. The plot was developed. The characters grow up. The villains show theirs other sides appealing for our sympathy, yet Cassandra Clare put this together impeccably.“Everyone is afraid of something. We fear things because we value them. We fear losing people because we love them. We fear dying because we value being alive. Don't wish you didn't fear anything. All that would mean is that you didn't feel anything.” Julian is my beloved character since City of Heavenly Fire. I could see that his heart was so pure then, and his love for Emma is larger than life. My heart literally and figuratively broke for him when he longs for something he's not supposed to have. Emma, on the other hand, is a great and strong female character. She complements the good sides of Julian, while he gradually unravels his dark side to us in this book. The contrast is surreal and makes this book more intriguing than I thought.“Emma. I need you, always, always think about you, I was wishing you were with me in that goddamned attic and then I turned around and you were there, like you heard me, like you're always there when I need you ...” The main plot is moving forward with the slow pace. To be honest, it took me almost a week to finish this book for some parts were boring and some were not. Not like Lady Midnight, Lord of Shadows doesn't have the mysterious atmosphere or thrilling investigation that I fell in love with. I really missed that excitement when I first read Lady Midnight while reading this book, and I hoped that the ending would save it all, but um, I thought I was wrong. The ending was so cruel and left a major impact on me, though. How could you, Clare ? How could you do this to me ? I'd prepared for anything, ANYTHING. But this ? This is too much. Shockingly I had to stop reading for a while since it hurt me so much to continue even though there were just two or three pages left. “There's never going to be anyone else for me. That's just how it is.” Well, I kinda like how the author wrote about Bangkok institute and transgender. In Bangkok, transgender or ladyboys are very famous, and when I saw this, I was so surprised because yeah ! this is my country and she detailed it pretty good. However, this series has the variety of sexuality from straight, gay, bi to pansexual. And this makes me love Clare even more. I love LGBTQ in novels. They should be paid attention to both in books and real life.About Ty and Kit, I think I saw something passing between them.I am so afraid to read this. Not because someone I love might die, but the next and the last book will be released in 2019.TWO YEARS !“Sometimes the most ruthless heart speaks the most truth” https://goo.gl/C35G5Y