I wanted to enjoy All the Birds in the Sky based on the recommendation of Roxane Gay and one of my close friends, but alas, I did not. The book follows childhood friends Patricia Delfine and Laurence Armstead, who part ways in high school but cross paths as adults right about when the planet descends into chaos. Patricia is a talented witch who graduated from Eltisley Maze, a hidden academy for those with magical powers, and Laurence is an engineering genius whose fellow group of scientists aims to save the world with machinery. All the Birds in the Sky explores their relationship as it develops over time as well as the clashing forces of the mystical and the factual.I appreciated how the book addressed the theme of nature and science and how these two forces interact, compete, and collaborate. Other than that, though, I did not like much else about All the Birds in the Sky. The plot jumped around a lot and felt difficult to follow. The two main characters lacked emotional depth; they did things and things happened to them, but I wanted more internal reflection or growth from both of them. Underneath the wonky elements of fantasy and magical realism, I at first felt excited to see the development of Patricia and Laurence's friendship, but that too turned into an oddly-shaped, rushed romance. I take little to no pleasure in saying mean things about writing, so I will end this review by sharing that I feel glad that others have enjoyed this book. Perhaps people who like or have a higher tolerance for nonlinear, funky, uncouth books with fantastical elements will like All the Birds in the Sky. To finish on a positive note, here is a quote that one of the characters says that I loved, especially given the need for empathy and compassion when the United States is currently governed and controlled by those who lack those very qualities:"'I don't actually think that ethics are derived from principles. At all.' Patricia scooted a little closer again and touched his arm with a few cool fingertips. 'I think that the most basic thing of ethics is being aware of how your actions affect others, and having an awareness of what they want and how they feel. And that's always going to depend on who you're dealing with.'"