As a reader, every once and a while a book comes along that charms the living daylights out of you. All the Birds in the Sky surprised, astounded, and captivated me in equal measures. Unfortunately, when a book is this good it makes it almost too difficult to review: there's little to be said that the novel won't say for itself. If you think you might like this novel, read it. All the Birds in the Sky's hook is that it is a story that blends sci-fi and fantasy. I got the impression prior to my read that it would be a bit like Harry Potter meets Iron Man, that there'd be some cool fight scenes, and would be some nice brain candy. The hook, though apt, doesn't deal with how well Charlie Jane Anders manages to weave these two genres together. It's obvious that Anders is an acolyte of SFF canon, though here they are able to both pay it homage and move it forward. The novel walks a fine line between the recognizable and the new, crafting a story that feels unlike anything I've ever read before.Though I think the novel is aimed at a millennial audience, I too think that it has universal appeal. The future of the novel looks at a world not too far removed from our own. Young people are galavanting around with smartphones, eating hip food, and doing their very best to find themselves amidst the noise of the digital world. Anders is able to make the novel work as commentary and reflection on modern society without ever seeming preachy, condescending, and without a touch of Luddism. The world building here is breathtaking. Anders manages to concoct a magic system (more wondrous than Sanderson-esque rigour), build a sci-fi plot, MARRY THE TWO CONCEPTS, and never falters on either account. The world always felt rich, deep, and full of mysteries waiting to be uncovered. Anders smartly tells the reader just enough that they are able to imagine a concept, place, or event and burn to know more. All the Birds in the Sky makes for a world that I'd love to come back to, but would be perfectly happy if this was all that Anders chooses to do in this world. None of this would work without Patricia and Lawrence. While the world, story, and systems pay homage to SFF, reflect the real world, tap into fears about climate change, an unstable political climate, and questions our modern society, it's really all about Patricia and Lawrence. The story opens with their childhood adventures and mishaps, but by the time I was a third of the way into the book I couldn't wait to spend more time with the duo. Both characters are compelling in their own right. Lawrence is a brilliant but neurotic engineering prodigy kept in check by his unambitious parents. Patricia is a courageous but impulsive fledgling witch who just can't seem to get out of the shadow of her successful sister. The pair complement one another, but their individual POV chapters never left me feeling as if I'd prefer to be reading one character over another. All the Birds in the Sky did just about everything I want in a book. It is superbly written, it has compelling characters, a fast-moving plot, a surprising amount of humour, it is literary, it is a thinker, and it is all wrapped up in a sci-fi and fantasy blend. I can't recommend All the Birds in the Sky enough and hope you all take a chance on this one. It was a blast to read and I can't wait to badger all my friends and family to read it.