I didn't want to rate this 2 stars, but I gotta. Out of everything I read of Brandon's this is perhaps my least liked book of his. Many authors have books that are so-so, and even still, I continue to buy their books. This book was written for his wife and there is a sentimental reason behind it. This book was written as a bit of a nod to The Princess Bride. That instead of Wesley saving Buttercup, instead it's Tress saving Charlie. I have no problems with that what-so-ever. I think that we need more stories with females saving their male 'true-love'. But, this book sadly is not what I hoped it would be. Did I expect a romance? No. I don't see Brandon writing one like that. However, I expected a story told from Hoid's perspective of a girl finding herself. One will argue with me that she found herself, that I am rating this book rather poorly. For me, I can't really say what went wrong and why this book (the first of the bunch) turned out to be a dud, but I'll go into it:1.) Tress is the only person with any sort of character in this story. Of course, told from Hoid's perspective, the focus is on her... but man, there is no one with any sort of personality, character development, and or likeable qualities. Tress gets off the island, meets a talking rat named Huck, and boards a ship with pirates who take her own one of their own. At one point in the book, Hoid says to call all the people on the ship 'Doug' because they're not important and don't really add to the story. There are about three that we learn their names but not much else. They are the supporting characters in the story. Unfortunately, Brandon makes them very bland and just talking pieces of cardboard that honestly don't lend anything to Tress' and her overall narrative. While this book has the most amount of females I've seen together on a page, I still can't say that I remember anything they said or did enough to care.2.) While Princess Bride is not a YA book, it is fantasy book that is found in the normal fantasy section of the bookstore. This book has a juvenile feel to it - as stated, no real romance, no real dark or depressing moments for the main character, no villain. It's like Hoid chose to tell a very G rated story about a girl who is boring and continues to remain boring. In the Princess Bride film and novel we are given backstories about almost every character based on what they said or did, or we can infer. In this, I can't infer about a single person besides what Brandon tells us what we have to know. Damn, these are characters Tress is going to rely on. If I was in her position, I think after spending a shit ton of time on a boat with them I'd learn to figure out something about them if I end up becoming friends with them.3.) This book takes place on a fucking boat for the majority of the story. I have read a few stories in which the book or books take place on a boat but the boat or the characters are more fully developed. Because the situation is situated to this damn boat, Brandon sadly confined his main character - again - to an island so to speak without any way of getting off it. All her character development happens on this boat. I'm sorry, I can't with that aspect and by the end of this book, I feel like Tress learned nothing and did nothing and remained the same person. 4.) I normally love Hoid, and I love his character whenever he shows up in the cosmere. But for some reason, his tone absolutely killed this book for me. I don't know if it's because I can't deal with him as a narrative voice or I was exposed to a great chunk of him speaking in asides or in some sort of witticism that doesn't quite hit... I just felt that this story was not the story I wanted of Hoid. :/5.) Charles turning into the rat I called from a mile away. There was so many hints and or references to it. Charles when he was a human wasn't all that great either, pretty bland dude. But hey - guess bland people are perfect for one another.6.) The villain was weird and didn't do jack shit, besides sit in a tower on a small island and observe people from her ipad. I expected more interaction, more of a fight or a involvement to give Tress some 'umph' to keep on fighting to feel like she went the distance to get her man. It was a cheat, and Hoid ended up saving the day by telling her to go away and never return after Tress brought both Charles and Hoid to the island to break their curses. I don't know how the other books are written except for the beta team but I expected something with more meat on the bones. Instead, I got a boring, rather drawn out short story about a dull girl who goes to rescue a dull 'man of her heart' from a lame villain who doesn't do anything to make shit difficult for her. But again: this was written as a story for his wife, and if she enjoyed it that's what should matter. Props to him for being an amazing husband and writing a novel for her enjoyment. I hope more writers do that for their wives. I hope book two is better :/