What in the world... Jessica Townsend's Nevermoor: The Trials of Morrigan Crow had garnered an exceeding amount of praise and recognition throughout news articles, catching my attention as well. From the film rights already sold to a 7-figure deal between major publishers and even being likened to Harry Potter (I mean no I didn't buy it of course, but c'mon don't we readers all get hopeful that the next big thing is finally here?) Nevermoor ignited so much buzz on the web that I had to see for myself if this novel was worth the hype. Most unfortunately, it wasn't. Not even close to it. How to describe Nevermoor? A mash-up of Mary Poppins, Harry Potter, and Hotel Transylvania. I use the Harry Potter card carefully. It is not thrilling, sophisticated, and creative as Harry Potter. I say Harry Potter only because there were similar aspects like how Morrigan is a "cursed child" and grows up being very lonely and feared/hated by others. And there are plenty of other scenes that are reminiscent of Harry Potter, which isn't a bad thing, but only is if it feels redundant and unoriginal. Now, I say Marry Poppins because Jupiter North is Marry Poppins much in masculine form. Period. And lastly, I say Hotel Transylvania because Halloweenish characters appear throughout the novel. I cannot express enough how utterly disappointed I am. Nevermoor did not wow me, amaze me, entertain me, impress me, or even amuse me. It did not do the very thing news articles, Goodreads reviewers, and blurbs relentlessly promised: to wow me and us readers. It was a long, jarring flop. Morrigan Crow was one dimensional. She always feels like the background, experiencing everything from afar and not keen to make her own decisions nor ask questions when she needs to. She's not independent nor strong-minded. Jupiter North once again is Mary Poppins. Eccentric, warm hearted, and a mentor to Morrigan. Now, the story lacks conflict and tension. And I've seen and loved plenty of children's novels that have those essential aspects. So the whole book from beginning to end felt like a long, exhausting, and taxing read. It literally drained the energy out of me. The writing wasn't anything special. I believe the writer doesn't know how to write figuratively. It was extremely dry, plain and unoriginal. It didn't help that the main character was almost always in a drab and gloomy mood. Another issue about this book is that the relative location of the characters in a scene isn't described thoroughly. For example, there was a scene where Morrigan went into the elevator with Jupiter, but all of a sudden there were a bunch of people with them and Martha the maid was there. And this happened consistently. Or supporting characters were not described very thoroughly in detail like their physical appearance and personalities. And they felt like placeholders, not unique or charming in any way. It was sometimes very frustrating. Another biggie problem was how the conflicts were solved. Goodness! Trial after trial, Morrigan smoothly passed through all including the climax of the novel by slim needle hole of luck that she'll easily pass through. It was strange and upsetting. None of it felt believable. It didn't support or enrich Morrigan's character. Because she slipped through so easy in all of these "daring and difficult" trials and other conflicts, the conflicts didn't feel like conflicts at all. Overall, this novel did not meet up with all the hype. It's actually really mediocre. I still cannot understand how so much praise was given to this novel. There wasn't a deep meaning or theme within the book that could outshine the slow paced, dull plot. This is just a typical children's novel that is easily forgotten.