oh man, this was b a d. first off, although I applaud the author for breaking out of the mold of writing a fae story, I was really disappointed that this was not about faeries. partly because I just really enjoy fae lore but also because holly black is not great at worldbuilding as a whole. if you’ve read her previous books, she is known to throw things at the reader/assume her readers already know her world. when you’re already building off a lot of popular folklore many people are familiar with, sure it can work; but when you’re building your own magic system but still barely explaining anything AND doing a piss-poor job of it? yeah, not gonna work out for me. the shadow magic was incredibly underwhelming. very underdeveloped and lackluster. the way it was incorporated in the world was just thrown together sloppily. the hierarchies were there as plot conveniences. and what the hell were the rules of this magic anyway??? couldn’t tell you. (and neither could holly because this book wouldn’t exist without the hundreds of plot holes in it) as far as characters are concerned, absolutely nothing memorable at all. from someone who could write such compelling characters whom I LOVE (hi jude, love you) this was, again, severely underwhelming. I cared about absolutely no one. our main character had zero personality. the “romance” (if you can even call it that) lacked any tension whatsoever. and for some reason everyone in this town knew everyone, had history with everyone, and everyone was conveniently connected to further the “plot”. yup, okaaaayyy. also there’s a weird incestuous thing……. don’t really know why that was there. also, I know it’s bad taste to compare books but I just can’t help but mention the parallels to ninth house. I mean charlie is very much a lukewarm alex, the shadows & ghosts react/are described fairly similarly, the dark tones, & the way the book switches back & forth from charlie’s tragic backstory? I’m sorry I just couldn’t not compare them. TL;DR this book may be holly black’s adult debut but it truly feels like a rough draft of a debut novel. there is zero depth both in plot, characters, & world. it’s underwhelming and underdeveloped in every aspect. I am truly shocked at how (almost) unreadable it is. I hope this finds its right reader, but that reader is not me. I’ll be sticking to my cruel prince obsession, thank you.