I've never read a book quite like The Last Dragonslayer. It was very odd, to say the least, but maybe that's why I liked it so much. Honestly, the first half of it was THE BEST. <3 All the wizards (minus Lady Mawgon) were endearing, and the quirky magic in Kazam was so much fun. I loved the idea of magic "fading" from society. The book was set in modern times (as far as I know??) and magic was used for stuff like delivering pizza, rewiring houses, and charming moles. SO AWESOME. Okay, sooo...maybe a list will do well in this case?Lovely Things: - The magic. Obviously.- The Quarkbeast. HE WAS SO CUTE AND PRECIOUS, CAN I PLEASE HAVE ONE?- All the hilarious dialogue. Seriously, there are so. many. quotes. I just want to quote this entire book, honestly. I would list some but then we would be here all day. ;)- The creativity. IT WAS OFF THE CHARTS. Wowww, I want to be half as creative as this author.- The VW Beetle. I love Beetles, and the fact that Jennifer owns one makes me a happy human bean. - The writing style. It was so unique and quirky and overall charming.- Everything about the Kazam company. All the wizards and stuff that live there are so fun! I want to learn more about them.Not So Lovely Things:- There was one usage of mild language which felt SO OUT OF PLACE, WHAT THE HECK. Ugh. That really annoyed me. -_-- There was this weird monologue thing by the dragon about evolution and I was just like "???" I didn't see the point of that either.- The ending was kind of confusing. Um...I'm still trying to process these out-of-the-blue plot twists. They just felt a little forced and sprung on me, which I wasn't all that fond of. Not that they were badly done, per se, but I had a bit of a hard time digesting them. *shrugs*- I didn't connect a lot to the MC. Jennifer was a decent character, but she was a little distant/emotionless. I didn't feel that much of a connection with her, although the rest of the (good) characters were delightful.Overall, I really enjoyed this book! However, I'm thinking that rounding it down to three stars fits better than rounding it up, in this case.3.5 stars!