*ARC sent by the publisher -Tor/Macmillan- for review. All thoughts and opinions are my own.* This is the queer epic fantasy we all needed. At its heart, this book was about grief and perseverance... and how both can mean something different and is showcased differently on individual people.“However tired I am, however hard it is: I know I can keep going, because I’m alive.”Before reading, I didn’t know what exactly to expect with “Mulan meets The Song of Achilles” but it is just that, while being so painfully aware of it’s own setting that reminds me more of The Poppy War with its brutal nature. Accompanied by a unique perspective, charming yet complex cast, lyrical prose, and immersive writing style that hits all the right emotions.— overall thoughts: 4.5 —if you are sensitive to triggering content please read the end of this review for content warningsThis did still feel like it was opening to a broader world and I honestly cannot wait to see where Shelley Parker Chan goes with the rest of the books. If you are looking for an in-depth and intricate magic system, I should say that you won't really be getting that for this first installment at least. There's still a magical/fantastical element to it but it's more on the backdrop and used to propel character development. She Who Became the Sun is a character-driven story that explores the internal politics of a ruling body and economics of war that highlights the journey these characters experience and while it does deal with heavy and dark themes— this read like a historical c-drama (in the best way possible) packed with a truck load of thought provoking moments that was brilliantly tied together while being so unflinchingly queer At it’s core, it’s about people trying to believe in their own fate in a society that sees them different ⚔️ The way discussions on gender roles and gender identity were weaved into a plot about war was just *chefs kiss* with nuanced conversations that will keep you readingThe dual POV was incredibly intriguing since you get to see the conflict progress from both sides progress. One of my favorite aspects was the fact that our two main characters weren't each other’s love interest. Shelley Parker Chan could have so easily made it a star-crossed lovers scenario and I’m so happy they didn’t. It benefitted the war narrative and made for way more interesting romances anyway.some other details you can find:-morally grey characters... villain origin story style-14th century china-yearning generals-forbidden romance-platonic relationships-complicated relationships -family drama-ghosts↣ If you're looking for a fast-paced, emotional, and dark fantasy that revolves around war (just the way I like it) that is built on solid themes, high stakes, and will keep you turning the page while entrancing you the whole way through... here you go ☀️ I have too many words and I don't know if I got across how much I loved this book but I can’t wait to see how the rest of the story plays out 💛 ↢This was a refreshing historical fantasy debut and further deepens my love for this niche of a genre. I already know this is going to be iconic.⇢ content warnings// Ableism, Amputation, Castration (non-consensual, pre-existing), Death, Dysphoria, Homophobia (internalized), Misgendering, Murder (child), Physical Abuse, Public Execution, Sex (Consensual), Starvation, Torture (non-graphic), Violence ✧ you can find this review and more on my blog ✧----------------------(2/20/21) [ at this point, i think half of my copy is highlighted ](1/9/21) I can't believe I'm saying this but... I got an ARC----------------------[ there's this one scene that i really want to quote but i can't until i have the finished copy... i really hope it makes it until then because it was so hard hitting for me and i feel was a pivotal point for our main character. no spoilers but all you need to know is it's about a friendship and i'm a sucker for those. ]----------------------(12/4/20) you can’t pitch a book as “will wreck you and you will be grateful” and be ANOTHER ASIAN INSPIRED BOOK without expecting me to be interested. Not possible.