I think it all comes down to me not being an ambitious person. I could not care less about desiring “greatness” for the sake of power, especially if the path to that power is paved with bones. I don’t care if future degenerations would know my name — who the hell cares when you’re dead and are worm food?And that probably where my issues with this book lie. Determined pursuit of “greatness” and power at all costs as well as storylines centered on obligation for revenge tend to leave me cold.“But even as the thought came to her, she knew she wouldn’t give up greatness. Not for a child’s life, and not even to prevent the suffering of the people she loved, and who loved her. Because it was what she wanted.” I suppose this can be a story of beginnings of a ruthless ruler, a tyrant, or at least the now-popular ambiguous shades-of-grey character. But even then the relentless march to the goal did not touch my heart, although intellectually I appreciated a few narrative turns and decisions. But once we move from survival to power grab, my attention began to wane. And once an interesting character ended up revenge-obsessed, my attention really wandered off.“Becoming nothing was the most terrifying thing she could think of—worse even than the fear of hunger, or pain, or any other suffering that could possibly arise from life.”The setting of a 14th century Mongol-occupied China in the middle of Red Turban rebellion was quite interesting. Two protagonists with identities forged by circumstances — Zhu, a young woman due to circumstances willingly adopting a male identity and Ouyang, a eunuch slave moving on up to become a general and best friend to the son of a ruler who castrated him, and two standout secondary characters - Ma and Wang — made for a very compelling set-up. (Yes, an unexpected random fisting scene made for a cringeworthy moment, but that’s okay). The politics were not too boring either, even if at times all the scheming seemed too much, and Zhu’s ascent often appeared to hinge too much on sheer luck, coincidences and handwaving in the absence of actual tactical or military skills.But still it just didn’t touch that special place in my heart that makes me go all goooogoooo over a story.Which is too bad. But really, it’s a case of “It’s me, dear book, it’s not you”.And I still may try a sequel. Maybe there will be more Ouyang and less Zhu in it.3 non-ambitious stars.“She found herself searching desperately inside herself for any alien sensation that might harbor that red spark—the seed of greatness, pressed into her spirit by Heaven itself. But to her despair, there was nothing new to find. There was only the same thing that had always been there: the white core of her determination that had kept her alive all these years, giving her the strength to keep believing she was who she said she was. It wasn’t what she wanted, but it was all she had. For a moment she felt that old vertiginous pull of fate. But she had already launched herself in pursuit of it; there was no going back. Don’t look down as you’re flying, or you’ll realize the impossibility of it and fall.”