**3.5-stars HEAVILY rounded up**I'm slightly scared to write this review, but I am just going to do it. Bite the bullet, say what I have to say, perhaps ticking a couple of people off along the way.She Who Became the Sun was one of my most anticipated releases of the year and I fully expected to give it 5-stars. Unfortunately, that's just not the experience I had.The first 25%, I was hooked. We meet a young girl, a peasant of the Central Plains of China, who adopts her brother's identity after he tragically dies. He was fated for greatness while she was fated to die, yet the tables have turned. Now owning his identity, she is able to enter a monastery as a young male novice.More importantly, she commits to seizing Zhu Chongba, her brother's, greatness for herself. She will make her fate a choice, instead of a chance.The last 25%, I was so engaged. There's a lot of action, brutal deceptions and pivotal moments that tied me right back into the story.The central portion, however, was a mixed bag for me. I couldn't focus, my eyes kept glazing over; to be honest, I was bored.I felt like a ton was happening, while simultaneously nothing was happening. Trust, I understand this makes zero sense, but it's what I experienced.With my disappointments out of the way, I will say that Parker-Chan's writing deserves a full 5-stars. Their ability to create a beautiful sense of place, evoke strong emotions with their characters and seamlessly incorporate multiple perspectives into one linear narrative, is top notch. I did feel like I was transported to 14th-Century China.Additionally, I enjoyed the exploration of gender identity and gender fluidity. With both Zhu and Ouyang, a eunuch general in the Mongol army, their gender identity was a large part of the development of their characters over the course of the story.Obviously, I am giving this book 4-stars. I clearly enjoyed it. Even though I didn't enjoy it quite as much as I expected, it's still a really good start to a series.Although I am not sure how many books The Radient Emperor series is slated to be. I will definitely be continuing on.Thank you so much to the publisher, Tor, for providing me with a copy of this to read and review. I appreciate the opportunity and am confident a ton of Readers will love this one!