This is one of those stories where the world has a great deal to do with the plot. In the land of Renthia, there are five countries, each ruled by a different queen with the power to keep the spirits (fire, ice, water, air, earth, wood) under control. The spirits roam free and are responsible for creation and destruction. It is in their instincts to kill humans, but the queen won’t let them. It is her duty to keep her country safe. The Queen of Blood is set in the forests of Aratay where the villages and cities are in the trees. We’re with our main protagonist, Daleina, as she discovers she has an affinity to control spirits amidst a childhood tragedy and grows up to develop her ability while attending Northeast Academy in attempt to get the most out of her talents. She may not be the best student. She’s barely scraping by, but she’s determined, works hard, and she’s doing it all for the right reasons. Daleina’s heart is truly in the right place.The story also follows Ven, the disgraced champion. Champions are responsible for selecting a candidate (out of those with an affinity for spirits) to train in hope of them becoming an heir, one who’s capable of becoming a future queen when the queen dies. We get a couple other different POVs as well. It never gets confusing.The academy is filled with all these great female characters resulting in plenty of strong female friendships. It’s so beautiful within an environment where competition is so common. Daleina fights against the typical female stereotypes filled with jealousy and hatred. These girls support and help one another really shining a positive light on female friendship. Plus, some of these secondary characters were so excellent. There is a bit of romance that doesn’t overtake the plot. And occasionally, the story goes darker than expected. That’s the fun, though. Because Durst really isn’t afraid to go there.I am really looking forward to the sequel. With how things are looking, a character I’m very intrigued by will be popping up again and I need to know what becomes of Renthia as the books go on. This is an excellent fantasy with extreme crossover appeal. Bravo  Sarah Beth Durst!