“Whether you made your choices with your eyes open or closed, they’re made. It’s not time to regret them; it’s time to live with the consequences.”Welcome to the review of a book that shredded my dreams and expectations, threw them on the floor, and trampled on them with dirty shoes.What I liked:The world building was just fantastic. We dive into a world where spirits and humans work hand in hand to keep nature alive together. And by together I mean that the spirits are forced by a queen to do no evil and are only supported in their creative urge by manipulating them. There are spirits of every element and as soon as one of them dies it has a drastic effect on the environment, which means that if you kill all the spirits (because they are actually a threat and want to kill people as a punishment for making nature their own) people would no longer be able to survive. No more wind, no water, no wood, no fruit, no fire. Accordingly, every year new candidates for the throne are trained, who after a four-year academy have to prove their ability to master the spirits by passing a number of trials. Because as soon as the current queen either dies or loses power, the spirits would instantly attack the people. Oh and I have to mention that our main character will have a friendly wolf later on whos name is Bayn. If you know me a bit by now you can tell I'm a sucker for animal companions!Tropes: Training setting in the form of a magic school, then later the teacher-student trope combined with people living in tree house villages.“Know me, for I am death to all oath breaker, promise renders, and betrayers. Know me, for I am the last sunset, the night without the dawn, the winter without spring. I am pain to your pleasure, silence to your shout, stillness to your speed. I hunt death.” What I disliked:I mostly read plot driven books and this one is no exception. The bad thing about this book is that the author used this as an excuse not to create real characters. I can really see over many things when I am caught up in a world like this but THIS was just bad. There is not a single character in this book that has a deep personality. Daleina (one of our main characters) can be summarized as follows: She worries about being the weakest of the candidates and therefore doesn't think she deserves to become queen later on, so she works very hard to improve herself. That's it. That's all you can say about her. Ven (our second main character) is a disgraced master who trains candidates after the Academy. About his personality the following can be said: He has the need to protect people. And he is naive about the image of his queen, with whom he had a love affair before she banished him.“Don't trust the fire, for it will burn you.Don't trust the ice, for it will freeze you.Don't trust the water, for it will drown you.Don't trust the air, for it will choke you.Don't trust the earth, for it will bury you.Don't trust the trees, for they will rip you,rend you, tear you, kill you dead.”The second problem is the missing feelings. There are two "love relationships" in this book, one of which you could theoretically observe how it develops, while the second one simply already exists. These two "couples" have no chemistry whatsoever with each other (how could they, they are not lifelike characters) but you don't learn anything about why they love each other at all. For Daleinas love interest there is a description of how she sees him in her eyes (so really only his outer appearance) and then it doesn't even describe why they are together. It is not clear whether she has feelings for him at all, because you don't get detailed scenes between the two, there are no inner monologues because it is written from the narrative perspective. Nevertheless, you could describe here how two lovers interact with each other so that the reader can understand why they love each other and how the way of interaction differs from a friendship. There wasn't even the phase where you could guess that the two are falling in love  (except to say that it would fit into the story now). None of this takes place here, there was a first kiss where there was no tension even before and the rest is not really described. “Daleina would not be kept from her fate. She’d run toward it, arms open, and kick fate in the face.”The same principle can be applied here to friendships that are not developed in this book but simply exist after a short time. In the end she even had several "friends" but you could only tell them apart by their names. There is a single character named Merecot (the only one that is not displayed like all the others and therefore seems more interesting) who could possibly become an antagonist later on and even she considered Daleina as a friend after the a few days. You could tell her apart by the fact that she at least gave her some sass or said straight to her face what she thinks of Daleinas powers or what a future she will probably have. Unfortunately, Merecot is only present for a short period of time and is then casually mentioned in a single sentence towards the end. But this statement was a great insight and I wish we would have Merecot's perspective in the second book, but I doubt it. I have never read a book in which I had the feeling that the characters are described so one-dimensionally that I could not connect with them at all, put myself in their shoes or even feel excited about them. There were scenes that were supposed to be tragic or a reunion after a long time and none of them affected me because she didn't show any feelings herself. I'm so disappointed with this story at the same time because the world itself has so much potential and the plot would have been great if there were just realistically descriptive characters. The end is predictable and although in the course of the story even people who should actually be close to her die, this is dealt with in one sentence and hardly mentioned again afterwards.The Queen of Blood was one of my most anticipated books this year, so I was even more disappointed with what happened. I will still give the second book a chance because I JUST LOVE THIS WORLD an apparently it takes place years after the first one. A different main character has to be trained to be a candidate since the new queen of this book is dying. Maybe the author learned something after this and can create a different book that hopefully will not just be book one with a new protagonist all over again!Buddy read with my loveliest and slowest reader of all time: Joshita who forgets to send me her notes and thoughts! <3 I'm always glad to pull you out of a reading slump even though the book turned out to be more of a disappointment. May the next buddy read book be awesome again!