I’m having trouble rating this book. On the one hand, I loved the world, the magic system, and the plot. But I never fell in love with any of the characters and that really makes a book fall flat for me. A world can be amazing, but it’s the characters I return to read about. I think it’s a 3.5 for me. I’m going to round up to a 4 though. I really did love this world and I would pick up the next one.The Queen of Blood takes place in Aratay. It’s a kingdom built in a giant forest – think rainforest with the different levels of canopy. Villages exist off the ground with bridges to connect them and even zip line wires up high for fast travel. I love a different setting which feels compelling and meaningful and everything about this world felt thought-out. It’s often a hard thing to do when you’re creating cultures that are a 180 but there wasn’t a moment where I thought something didn’t seem to fit in this world.Don’t trust the fire, for it will burn you.Don’t trust the ice, for it will freeze you.Don’t trust the water, for it will drown you.Don’t trust the air, for it will choke you.Don’t trust the earth, for it will bury you.Don’t trust the trees, for they will rip you,rend you, tear you, kill you dead.My favorite part of this book was the spirits – fire, ice, water, air, earth, and forest. They exist to create or destroy and they long to kill humans. All of the spirits are controlled by a human Queen with the power to make them do no harm. The ability to control also exists among other women with varying degrees of talent who range out around the kingdom protecting villages and helping them to grow while keeping an eye out on the spirits who always seek to kill.The book follows Daleina, a young girl whose village is ripped apart by a spirit attack. Daleina discovers she has a small ability to control the spirits but is only able to save her immediate family. She makes it her dream to become Queen in order to protect the people she loves and enters the Academy. The Academy is where girls with talent go for training and eventually hope to become Heirs. Whenever a Queen dies, all the Heirs come together and the spirits select a new Queen and imbibe her with the power to control them all. As much as the spirits long to destroy, they also want to create and the Queen is the balance keeping them from destroying everything.I liked Daleina but I never loved her. I often fall for the strong plucky sarcastic females. It’s not that Daleina isn’t a strong character, but it’s of a different type. She’s far from the best at the Academy, but she recognizes it and learns ways around it. I definitely can appreciate a girl finding a different way from the norm but she so often doubts herself that it becomes a bit hard to cheer for her. Something kept me from completely connecting with her, but I’m not 100% sure what that was. Maybe a bit more character development given the length of time supposedly passing in the story would have helped.None of the side characters really drove the story home for me either. There’s Ven, the exiled champion. Champions exist to give older trainees some real world experience. He’s the older mentor trope, but with some differences. He was probably my favorite character, and yet, there were times when he felt too naïve and young to be the mentor. I don’t mean a mentor can’t be naïve, and it did add a nice complexity to his character. The other girls at the Academy were interesting, but not on the page long enough to really build a connection. Then there’s Hamon, the throwaway love interest. If I can be allowed to go on a tangent here (and I can it’s my review =D ), I Did. Not. Understand. Why. He. Was. Included. I get it. It’s YA. There had to be a love interest? Ugh. Such a stupid worthless use of pages. Sorry Hamon, but you brought nothing to the story except to make me roll my eyes. On a similar topic, there’s a wolf pet that had no point to the story and could have been cut. I love animal pets but he made such an impression that I can’t even remember his name.I really did love this world though. It was a new and interesting setting which seamlessly fit into the story. It wasn’t different just to be different but really felt developed. The story has some slow parts but it continues to build toward the end. The ending was a brutal eye-opener and I loved it. I just wish the characters were on the same level as the world for me. I liked Daleina more when she got out of the Academy-setting so here’s hoping for Book 2. Just please get rid of Hamon already.