Queen of Blood is essentially a story about evil elemental spirits who hate all of human kind. And humans cannot always fight back because these spirits are needed to keep the woods alive. The Queen is the sole individual who has the power to keep these spirits from slaughtering every human they see. But without a Queen, the spirits are free to ravage anyone they come across. So while there is a Queen, those who have the ability to control spirits will need to train and compete against one another to be trained to take the Queen’s place in case she falls. The novel starts with spirits attacking an entire village. This is where Daleina, our protagonist, comes to the realization that she can control spirits. She manages to save her family, but most of the remaining villagers die during the attack. Being one of the very few women who possess this ability, she knows she needs to train to be heir. Ven is an ex-Champion to the Queen. Though he was banished, he joins forces with Daleina to figure out why the spirits have been acting on edge lately. Within just the first few pages, I knew the writing would be flawless. The imagery is insanely beautiful. Villages are built upon massive tree branches, and just so much of the story takes place in woodland areas. Maybe it’s just this lockdown, but I was severely missing all the hiking I did here in California prior to quarantine. I almost cried. That’s how naturesque this book is.  I see this book being marketed as both young adult and adult fantasy. I personally feel this book could be for anyone. The little to none sexual scenes are very brief and fade-to-black. And the violence is not at all graphic in my opinion. Yet, this book is far from your typical young adult fantasy novel. We have a female protagonist who is not the best at what she does. She constantly fails, but takes note to learn from her failures. And whatever accomplishments she gains, she gains through hard work. And believe it or not, this dual POV fantasy is not a romance between Daleina and Ven. Ven is more of a brotherly/fatherly figure to her. And the very little romance there is basically nonexistent. You don’t even notice it. It never once deviates from the overall plot, or causes Daleina to make rash decisions. If you’re like me and are tired of YA fantasy recently, don’t let the title fool you into thinking this is just another generic one. It’s not. I am so glad I picked it up.