✅ Magic✅ World-building✅ Plot✅ Pace✅ Action ✅ CharactersWell... I did not expect to enjoy this book so much, it was a nice surprise. A Queen of Blood was refreshing, mainly because of the setting. The people of Aratay are living in a giant forest. Their homes are built in trees, they travel from tree to tree with bridges of kinds of zip lines. Everything in this realm is intertwined with nature and they must be very wary of the forest spirits. Air, Fire, Water, Earth, Wood, and Ice: the spirits live in the forest and are thirsty for the blood of humans. The only thing keeping them from destroying everything is the Queen. She has the ability to control and command the spirits. From the first chapter, there is action, but also quite a long timeline. The story begins when Daleina is very young (9 years old) and then most of the story happens a few years later when she is nineteen, but the progression from nine to nineteen was smooth. It was not just a big jump in time and magically she is older, wiser, and stronger. Basically, a few women have the ability to control spirits, they are trained to become potential heiresses to Renthia. They have to pass a test to enter the academy where they are restlessly trained and they have to be chosen by a Champion if they want to be allowed in the trial to become an heir. Fifty heirs are selected so that when the queen dies, the spirit will choose the next queen (usually the most powerful of the heirs). There are many tests and steps to becoming an heir and I really liked how things were hard for Daleina. She was never the strongest and she does not become amazingly powerful just because she worked so hard. No matter how hard she tries, she is quite average when it comes to controlling and commanding spirits. Her struggle allowed us to focus more on her intelligence, wits, and leadership and to realize that the strongest is not always the best.Some things were predictable, some were not, but overall it was hard to put that book down. The pace, the action, the description, everything was very well balanced. The ending was horrible and exciting at the same time, the author managed to set things nicely for the second book.