My rating: 3★"Don't trust the trees, for they will rip you,rend you, tear you, kill you dead.”It was a fun read with a very gripping plot but sadly I was disappointed. Bear in mind that it is not a bad book, it just wasn't the ONE for me.The Queen of Blood is the first book in 'The Queens of Renthia' trilogy. Set in a magical land of Renthia where everything has a spirit—fire, earth, air, wood, water but as much as these spirits want to create, they ache to destroy life. Only a few girls are born with an affinity to control the spirits and one of them becomes a QUEEN who controls the spirits and balances the order in the land. And so heirs are chosen to prepare them to be queens when the current queen dies. Daleina is one such candidate, who trains to right the wrongs. As the spirits start to fall out of order, Ven, a disgraced champion, and Daleina join forces to find the cause and get their nation to peace and safety. “Whether you made your choices with your eyes open or closed, they’re made. It’s not time to regret them; it’s time to live with the consequences.”I had no plans of reading this but one of my friends Lisann came on and asked if I would buddy read and considering how I was in a reading slump, I said YES. And I don't regret my decision at all. The plot is very intriguing and one of the things that pulled me in was the magic system. Here humans don't possess the ability to do magic themselves but some girls have the power to control and manipulate the spirits for their own good. And basically get them to do things for them.WORLDBUILDING and WRITING:The world that Sarah Beth Durst built was so beautiful and dreamy. There is no clear way of saying that I loved her way of telling a story. The worldbuilding is done so amazingly that every detail feels real. The author paints this beautiful image in your mind and every detail is written with delicacy. Aratay is the most magical land with nature embedded in it. The houses and palaces and academies are all built on these huge trees. They use bridges and pulleys to work and I imagine the world as follows~ Now that what i call living a life in peace people!As I have already mentioned that the writing in the book was phenomenal. You can spot a lot of different things happening in the story, there is fantasy and magic with politics and a pinch of romance. And with the multiple POVs, the author weaves it all together. The book does have a lot of time jumps, I actually thought that maybe around 15 chapters or so might be dedicated to Daleina's life at the school. But the story is extremely fast-paced and sometimes it is a little overwhelming. I would often get to a part that I would love to spend time on but there would be a time jump right around that time. If I am being honest, that did irritate me. I knew the author was trying to get the story to its main objective but there were far too many time jumps at the beginning that disrupted the flow of the story...for me. But the last fight sequence was so well written, thanks to my graphic imagination and excessive binging of anime—I enjoyed the brutality of it all! Ugh now I just like psycho lol“Know me, for I am death to all oath breaker, promise renders, and betrayers. Know me, for I am the last sunset, the night without the dawn, the winter without spring. I am pain to your pleasure, silence to your shout, stillness to your speed. I hunt death.”CHARACTERS:Despite such a good plot, the poor character-building dropped my interest and rating. The author was continually working on progressing the story and now if I look back, I don't really "know" the characters.Every relationship that the book formed, lacked something and I knew it from the start but I thought that in the next few chapters, it might be explored more...but this book does lack the personality. I felt rather aloof by the time I reached the third half of the book because the parts that should have made me excited and happy didn't do much and the parts that should have broken me didn't feel that sad or heartbreaking. It is only when I get attached to the character that I feel for their loss or happiness and there were so many opportunities to mould the characters and carve them like real people but Sarah missed them all. And as my friend Lis said "What can you say about Daleina except that she is worried that her powers are not enough or that others are stronger? What makes her different?". The true character traits are missing. Even though we have two main POVs, we barely know the characters. RELATIONSHIPS:The relationships in the book weren't written properly...NOT EVEN A SINGLE ONE!So, one of the main features (except for the world) that got me excited was a Student-teacher relationship between Daleina and Ven. That relationship and ultimately it progressing into a brother-sister bond was the reason I got hyped in the first place. I have had a really good student-teacher and brother-sister relationship and that has got me through a lot of tough times. That relationship is very close to my heart and I wanted to see it projected here. It did start rather promising, it was going in that direction and I waited to see Ven and Daleina together but as I said the time jumps, poorly written characters and relationships ruined the one thing I was so excited to read about. It is established that Ven and Daleina get close and they care about each other but we never see how. The question is how did they get close? We do not see that journey, we do not see the character growth or their relationship growth. It was one of the most disappointing things for me because I was expecting a lot! HOW CAN YOU EXPECT ME TO JUST BELEIVE A CERTAIN RELATIONSHIP WHEN YOU DONT EVEN TRY AND SHOW US THE JOURNEY OR THE STRUGGLES OR THE BOND...Then there are the romantic relationships in the book that aren't so fun to read. They lack chemistry and zeel. And considering I am one of those people who love any kind of romance in a fantasy—this one was NOT it. Although there was a lot of female friendship in the book and the author did try and get as much variety and warmness as possible, I just didn't really feel that. The friendship was meant to touch my heart but I could barely remember their names let alone cheer for them. We were just giving a fact that they were close and we needed to learn that fact. We didn't get any proof to as what or how they were close, we were expected to cram that information and be okay with that. AND I AM NOT OKAY WITH THAT!“Daleina would not be kept from her fate. She’d run toward it, arms open, and kick fate in the face.”Now, if I talk about Daleina, the main character—despite her lack of personality, she wasn't a typical heroine. She wasn't the best and struggled with magic and so she made up by working hard and that was so interesting to me. She came in last for as long as she can remember and pulled every muscle to reach the top. It really is great to read about characters who aren't the top ones or chosen ones because the amount of work they put in throughout the book is so satisfying to read when it pays off by the end.********************************************There are just too many instances where things could have been so much better but because of the writing, I didn't fully enjoy them. Everything felt rushed and all the fragments were loose but there still isn't a doubt that I loved the world. The author could have added a few more scenes in the childhood era, then the academy scenes should have been more and then the training because I don't feel attached to anything. I would not have minded the author stretching theses scenes out and maybe have the series as a four-book one and not as a trilogy. I would have loved to see the story taking its time before just rushing to the end. But if you are looking for a great plot-driven story and wouldn't mind the lack of character depth then this book will be great for you. It has action, adventure, friendship, a bit of romance, magic, exciting tropes. So go ahead and give it a try. Q~ Will I read the next installment?A~ I guess so, I mean it sounds pretty interesting but I am not too eager to jump on that wagon. But I'll get to it eventually.#Buddy read this book with the very tolerable Lisann, who wouldn't get mad when you forget to send her notes and will wait for you if you read slower than her. It is always fun reading with her. So, thank you Lis♥