I loved this book!! It checks so many of my boxes. YA fantasy? Check! Pirates? Check! Mermaids? Check! A lovely romance? Check! Amora is a princess and the heir that will one day rule Visidia. To prove that she deserves to rule, Amora must display that she can use her soul magic and control it without it controlling her, since it is a dangerous magic that can cause mass death if used incorrectly. When Amora's demonstration doesn't go as planned, she is forced to run away from her home island of Arida with Bastian, who is a pirate. The two are accompanied by a stowaway, Ferrick, who was meant to marry Amora, and the three of them travel throughout the kingdom and eventually meet a mermaid named Vataea as well. Amora begins to find out that some of her kingdom's secrets have been kept from her, and she wants to discover all she can about the kingdom she will one day rule, and the kingdom she might soon have to save. Actual Rating: 4.2Let me warn you by saying that the first 50 or so pages of this are pretty terrible. It was boring and I didn't have enough interest in the characters or plot to want to keep reading. Even the prose was a little annoying in the beginning. We were introduced to several characters, including Amora's parents, her aunt, Mira, and Casem. They are never really fleshed out and I would have liked to have seen more from them. Hopefully, these characters will get a chance to become a little more three dimensional in the sequel. I also didn't particularly like Amora. She was very naive and I thought I would give her a free pass because she is young and has been sheltered by her parents, but she continues to make poor decisions later on. At least she has flaws, but it didn't help to endear me to her, especially since she seems to think she is edgy, repeatedly calling herself a monster. On the other hand, I do like it when Amora deals with leadership. A large part of her identity is her desire to lead her kingdom, but I like how well Amora deals with issues within her own little crew throughout the story. When she sees a problem and someone else is the perfect person to fix it, she doesn't hesitate to delegate the task, but she also isn't afraid to take action herself when she knows she can help. I liked this because it shows that Amora might be a future ruler because she was born into a royal family, but she isn't just a ruler. Amora is a leader. Bastian and Vataea were by far my favorite characters. I had hoped that Bastian would be a little more pirate-y, but I loved him all the same. Vataea was very interesting and I feel like she has so many more stories locked inside her, which I hope will be shared in the sequel. I'm also curious about Keel Haul. Is there a story behind where she got her name? How was she originally obtained? I have so many questions. If we never find out more I will be sorely disappointed, because it will be a missed opportunity. There are also subtle feminist themes, which I adored. It was nothing particularly shocking, but the period scene was a great addition and I support it wholeheartedly. P.S. If you want a fun treat, check the copyright warning. No other copyright warning will ever compare.