Ship ahoy! Hurrah! Pirates of Caribbean dances with darker versions Peter Pan and Little Mermaid !There is a lot of things for me to adore this journey:Amora: flawed but brace and mature for own age, born to be a leader and likable heroine.Bastian: charming pirate, powerful, charismatic, witty and so far my favorite character of the book( reminds me of Colin O’Donoghue’s performance as Captain Killian “Hook”Jones at OUAT. Actually his interactions with Amora reminded me of Emma Swan and Hook’s story at the series!)A vicious, killer mermaid:Vataea already stole the spotlight. Could a supporting character be better than the heroine? Yes, she definitely could! I chant for her! She is amazing! The world building, dark powers of magic theme and feminism vibes of the story worked also well. I loved the loyalty and beautiful bounding of the crew. Action packed parts were written rivetingly. The ending was also breathtaking and intriguing enough to make you read the conclusion of the story. When you put romance, world of pirates, magic, mermaids, moving dialogues into an equation with a remarkable cover: this means I’m sold at the first sight. Only thing made me cut one star was the slow and flat beginning of the story. In the beginning: we’re introduced with Amora who is princess and the heir who will rule the kingdom in near future. We start to learn about her family dynamics, her father’s over protective attitudes, her aunts. Then we witness Amora’s soul magic demonstration which is important for her to prove she is powerful enough to control the magic for becoming strong leader but as you may see her demonstration doesn’t go well as it was planned. She is involuntarily pushes to leave her home and makes an agreement with charming pirate to bring him his stolen magic back which take them to the dangerous journey to face with powerful monsters, vengeful mermaids. Amora slowly starts to realize the kingdom has its own secrets. She has to deal with them properly to become a true leader. I think till the journey on the ship starts, the book was solid three starred read for me but after passing first quarter of the book, the real magic starts to grow on you. I’m giving shiny, adventurous, dazzling, entertaining four stars and i cannot wait to get my hands on to the next installment! Hurrah!