“The magic is not in the ceremony of pouring the tea or the sharing of the cup. It is in the connection, the brief joining of souls. The tea leaves are the channel, the ingredients the signposts.”I’ve been meaning to read this book for a while, and I'm so happy I finally picked it up. It was such a fun and an interesting read. The magic system is very well done, and I can tell that Judy Lin put a lot of thought into explaining it. It’s based on the ancient Chinese art of brewing tea and tied into Traditional Chinese Medicine practices. The shénnóng-shī are trained to brew magical teas for a variety of reasons including healing, restoring memories, regulating emotions, poisoning, and more. I enjoyed the fact that magical teas and mythology were at the center of this story.“If you can feel someone else’s suffering, how can you look away?”Our main character Ning is a shénnóng-shī in training who desperately wants to save her sister’s life, so she joins a brutal magical tea-brewing competition hosted by the Imperial court. Ning was an awesome main character. She’s selfless, brave, and unfiltered even though her honesty gets her in trouble sometimes. She’s imperfect, understandably angry and suspicious at times, but she’s also very kind and determined to help others. I really liked the way her character was built and how clearly her emotions and morals play into her actions. She has a little more growing to do (who doesn’t, right?), but I’m sure I’ll see her improve even more in the sequel. “I'll rescue you ten times over if I will be kissed like that every time”Kang is a charming hero. He’s mysterious, and I enjoyed getting to know his a dark past and secrets. Even though I didn’t like all of his actions, I still think he was a cute character and love interest. The little bit of romance we got was adorable but wasn’t my favourite part of this book. At first it can feel a bit like insta-love, but then it turned a bit angsty. I have no idea if I’m explaining this well, but I liked that they were opposites and had some sweet moments together. I also hope to see their romantic connection develop more in the next book.Judy Lin’s writing is so engaging yet calming. It was a little formulaic at times, but I thought the politics and class systems in this book were interesting to read about and added to the high-stakes plot. However, I was really impressed with how the author balanced the story with beautiful world building, compelling characters, and the most delicious food descriptions. I was so hungry while reading that I kept snacks and lots of tea nearby. I really enjoyed the start of this duology, and I’m excited to read A Venom Dark and Sweet next.content warnings: death of a parent, grief, violence, injury.