Ok, I’m going to get this out of the way right at the beginning. YES!!! The Bloody Nine is Back! Nuf said. But you have to realistic about these things so for the sake of those who have no clue who The Bloody Nine is, I’ll continue.As many a reviewer has pointed out before, including Abercrombie himself, this is a fantasy version of a Western. Red Country returns us to the First Law Universe – or at least to the Far Wild West of it and treats us to a smorgasbord of Western genre tropes and clichés that will have you boot skootin’ just to keep up. Does it have cowboys – check. – And everyone wears hats too. Injuns? Check. But we call them “Ghosts” and they take ears instead of scalps – owww! Ranch burnt down by bad guys and children kidnapped, by Injuns or whoever...check. And the older sister takes a mean bastard with her to hunt em down? Check. Pilgrims heading west in covered wagons? Check. Mining town den of iniquity Deadwood style? Check. Cavalry massacring the natives...and whoever else? Check. Hot pursuit involving a stagecoach complete with horsemen boarding at full gallop? Check. What about gunfight at high noon? Check – but swords, or fists. No guns. But they do have cannons. And what about the hero heading of into the sunset? Why not – minus the hero of course – this is Abercrombie after all. And I could go on but really, you need to check it out for yourself.The story starts in the town of Square Deal, where Shy South – a woman with a shady past, is taking care of her two younger siblings on her farm with the help of her defacto step father, Lamb – a nine fingered northman with a bloody past that Abercrombie veterans will be all too familiar with. Lamb has been trying his hand at being a better man – or rather a dead man – and avoiding like the plague any sort of confrontation that might release the devil within. But the dead know, you can’t run from who you are – and when bad men burn down the farm and steal the children, well, we know it’s all going to end in blood and tears.Unlike the previous books, Red Country starts off slow, as we mosy on down the road to hell in hot but slow pursuit. We get to meet some old friends from the previous books as well as some new ones. The standout POV character here has to be Temple, – a lawyer for the infamous mercenary Nicomo Cosca, who finds himself with a conscience he doesn’t have the courage to follow – at least not all the way through – but shouldn't he get some consideration for a half arsed effort, surely? How about his whole arse? You'll have to read it to figure that one out.Crease, a mining town we spend a bit of time in, has got to be a salute to Deadwood. The mud gives it away, and it owes its’ existence to a gold rush that has every man and his dog and the fleas on his dog greedily trying to claw a fortune out of the ground. Throw in a couple corrupt, self serving, self appointed leaders who have split the town in half and we have all the ingredients of a brew that’s on the verge of bubbling over with blood and violence on top of the whores and drunks and mud and shite pretending at humanity.Again, this is a solid entry in the First Law Universe and Steven Pacey’s audio narration was top notch as usual and is in my opinion the best way to experience the Abercrombie books. So far he has tackled a few genre’s all in the same Universe. We had the thriller/Oceans Eleven style in Best Served Cold. Then we had the war genre in The Heroes. And now we have the Western in this book – what next? Maybe Abercrombie will try his hand at fantasy again. Or maybe horror? Wait...there’s a little bit of that in every book. How about Sci fi? The Bloody Nine gets abducted by Aliens and shows the little green men what a probe is really for?Anyway, I have to say this isn’t my favourite entry in the First Law Universe – but with top notch characterisation and story telling you can’t just expect to get better and better each book. Lets be realistic. But it’s dark, gritty, cynical, and its Abercrombie. And more than making up for the slower pace, it has The Bloody Nine. They say he’s unkillable. They say Death is his friend because of the sheer quantity of souls he’s sent into its hungry maw. Don’t let the name fool you. He’s no Lamb. He has a devil in him that likes killing, and when the blood letting starts, he doesn’t like to stop, and nobody is safe. Not even his friends. Maybe especially not them. 5 stars – and I wept, as well indeed I might, because there were no more Abercrombie worlds to conquer.