➽ The Hope of Elantris (Elantris) - ➽ The Eleventh Metal (Mistborn) - ★★★★This is a prequel story to the Mistborn series! It’s very short, but I absolutely loved the story. And, to be completely honest, I love seeing anything that stars Kelsier! This story centers around a man named Gemmel who is teaching Kelsier to use his Mistborn powers. And his powers are eventually put to the test when he is required to fight another Mistborn who is up to some no-good deeds. Again, this story obviously takes place before the events in The Final Empire, where Kelsier is already a confirmed badass with his powers. And just seeing Kelsier’s dynamic with his Allomantic teacher, who is obviously talking to someone who plays a much bigger part in this trilogy, brought such a smile to my face the entire time while reading.➽ The Emperor's Soul (Elantris)  - ➽ Allomancer Jak and the Pits of Eltania (Mistborn)  - ➽ White Sand (excerpt; Taldain)  - ➽ Shadows for Silence in the Forests of Hell (Threnody)  - ➽ Sixth of Dusk (First of the Sun)  - ➽ Mistborn: Secret History (Mistborn)  - ★★★★★This review will contain major SPOILERS for the original Mistborn trilogy! Please do not continue on if you have not read The Final Empire, The Well of Ascension, and The Hero of Ages! 

“There’s always another secret.”

Okay, so I completely and promptly started to lose my ever loving mind when I realized that this novella was going to star Kelsier in the in-between. Then, seeing his death again, and from his point of view, I was completely rebroken all over again. But seeing this original trilogy take place quickly in Kelsier's perspective was something that I never expected and completely loved. And seeing his interactions with Preservation were something of magic. It also helped explain a lot, like the scene when Elend was stabbed at the well. Oh my God, I have no words for what this amazing new perspective gave me. And how the earthquakes were from Kelsier and Ruin fighting!? Oh my Lord. Who did Brandon Sanderson sell his soul to, to be able to write like this? Seriously, so impressive. And Vin, such a perfect little brave cinnamon roll, who was always too good for this world. Her choosing to go, when Kelsier feels unable to leave, God, I can't. Brandon Sanderson is able to evoke such much pure emotion from me, because of these amazing and realistic characters he creates. 

“She brought destruction to the destroyer”

Seeing, and actually talking about, the Cosmere universe was amazing, too! Brandon Sanderson is such a talented author, and seeing him talk about this elaborate universe that he has created, with his stories that link it all together, made me awestruck. I also loved how we are slowly learning that there are greater problems surrounding this universe, even though we as readers are always just so heavily invested with the story at hand. This was a wonderful addition to this world, and I can't recommend enough! I am so thankful to have read it, and it really made an amazing story even more spectacular! And that epilogue with Spook made me want to run to my bookshelves and pick up The Alloy of Law immediately. ➽ Edgedancer (Stormlight Archive)  - ★★★★First and foremost, I haven't read The Way of Kings or Words of Radiance, and I know this had some spoilers for me and I'm a horrible person, but I really needed to read this for the BooktubeSFF Awards. Plus, after reading I don't really think it had that many spoilers. Like, I know there is obviously a resolution that happened after book two, and I know a new Desolation is about to cause a bunch of havoc in Oathbringer, but I still think I can enjoy all the books and still know very minimal. (Art by Marie at jurassicpencil!)This story surrounds a side character named Lift, who is freakin' awesome! I was a little apprehensive, knowing that the main character was going to be a twelve-year-old, but she completely won me over and quickly. I also loved her spren, Wyndle, who is a plant elemental, which everyone knows I'm a sucker for any magical companion! They were such a cute pair, and I loved the visual of them traveling together, on the hunt for different kinds of pancakes. The adorable pair travel to a new city, where Lift is very adamant about using her Edgedancer powers so she can catch the attention of a man named Darkness, who she believes is hunting someone else who has powers. During her stay in the new city, she meets a strange woman that runs an orphanage for sick children who are no longer wanted. Darkness was a wonderfully complex villain, especially for only a 130 page story. I never thought he was purely bad, just significantly misguided, and I really can't wait to actually read this series so I can read more about him and his questionable direction. The only negative thing I will say is that I understand that Lift is young, but I'm not sure how problematic/unproblematic the mental health topic is in this book. I'm not the best judge of this, but a few of the things said in this book seemed like they could at least make someone else feel uncomfortable, so I think it's important for me to note it.Overall, I really enjoyed this and it made me really hyped to start The Way of Kings! This was a really beautiful story that warmed my heart and made me giggle on many occasions. Lift and Wyndle were so easy to love, and I want to know anything and everything about them!Blog | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Twitch