Generally I don’t purchase collections of stories from authors. But as with everything else Brandon Sanderson (BS) I break away from my normal habits and feel good about it. Why is this collection of stories worth purchasing if you have most of the stories in it already?Duh, because it is Brandon Sanderson. But no really. He didn’t just throw a bunch of stuff he has already written in a book just to make more money. These stories all have one thing in common. They are all happening in the Cosmere so in some later way they will be connected. Khriss (a worldhopping scholar that has shown up in various Sanderson books) does an intro into each of the stories in a new system giving a brief overview of the shards present in that system and the type of magic system happening there. If you are a geek like me these intros both answered some questions while raising others. You don’t have to be deep into the cosmere aspect of BS’s writing to enjoy his books but if you are this is just an added bonus.After each story is a postscript written by BS that explains why this was a story he decided to write and maybe some of the ideas behind it. My favorite postscript was for Hope of Elantris (HoE). 
The short version is that a kid in his future wife’s class did a book report on Elantris not knowing that said future wife was dating BS. The book report was very elaborate and before he was well known. He wrote HoE and gave one of the characters the kids name and presented it to her.
 It was a very interesting story and of course he tells it better but I liked where the inspiration came from.The other great thing is additional artwork that is included at the beginning of every story. In addition there is a map of the solar system indicating where every planet is and the constellations they are attached to. I again bow down to the forethought and planning that has gone into the massive worldbuilding that has been done up to this point for the Cosmere it is really staggering. There is always something a little extra for those who read Sanderson and he delivers here as well. I had read most of the stories in this book so I will only be officially reviewing EdgedancerI loved Lift in the interlude of Words of Radiance (WoR). Her character and story was one that interested me a lot. She is so different than anyone else that we have yet seen with a spren. In fact she doesn’t even acknowledge that her spren is in fact a spren, instead she calls him a Voidbringer all the time. I find her irreverence and childishness sort of refreshing. So after coming into some of her power in WoR she has lived in the palace with her good friend Gawx but apparently it is time to go.
”Oh mistress,” he said “Can’t we stop playing out here, please?” We need to get back to the Azimir!”“Go back?” Lift stood up. “We just escaped that place!”“Escaped! The palace? Mistress, you were an honored guest of the emperor! You had everything you wanted, as much food, as much –““All lies,” she declared hands on her hips. “To keep me from noticin’ the truth. They was going to eat me.”
Lift has always had a very different view of the world and that hasn’t changed any in this novella. She is definitely one in a million and has decided to set off to find someone or something. I was a bit shocked to learn it was Darkness himself.The best thing about this novella besides Lift is getting a little insight into what Nalan (a.k.a. Darkness), Szeth and Nightblood (favorite sentient sword ever) are up to after the events in WoR. But not only that there is the introduction of ‘The Sleepless’ and some hints dropped about the Heralds and their madness along with who Nightwatcher might be. I really don’t want to give too much away but this is a story that lets you see Lift’s transition from semi obnoxious pre-teen being blown around by the wind to someone who might just be an important force that everyone has underestimated up to this point.
 "We watch the others. The assassin. The surgeon. The liar. The highprince. But not you. The others all ignore you … and that, I hazard to predict, is a mistake.”
There are novellas between books that are just extra and I don’t think you need to read them to carry on with the story but with what we learn about Szeth and Darkness along with the Sleepless I think this is one that is a must read before the next Stormlight book. In a perfect world BS will release Edgedance as a single before Oathbringer but I haven’t heard anything about that at this time. Still if you can find a copy you need to read it first.Other ReviewsSecret History (Mistborn 6.5) ★★★★★The Emperor’s Soul ☆☆☆☆☆ Sixth of Dusk ★★★★Shadows of Silents in the Forests of Hell ☆☆☆Hope of Elantis – Review to Come ★★★The Eleventh Metal – Review to Come ☆☆☆☆Allomancer Jack and the Pits of Elantia, Episodes twenty-Eight Through Thirty – Review to Come (the commentary was super funny) ★★★★White Sands – Review to Come ☆☆☆☆