Update: I should have mentioned this earlier but clearly I was so smitten by this book that it left me with half-a-brain functioning (the other half was probably floating around the Cosmere). I always find that a well-written postscript by an author truly elevates the reader's appreciation of the story. This happened to me for Elantris when I read the Postscript which was an addition to the 10th Anniversary Edition. In this precious collection, Sanderson wrote one for each and every story!! As if I don't love this book enough, that just floored me completely. ----------------------------------There was 
absolutely no doubt
 that I will give this an all-the-stars rating and a spot on my favourites shelf. Just the Cosmere constellation end-paper, star charts and the 
brilliant
 solar system essays alone will earn such ravings from me. To cap it all off, I finally found what I needed to grace the walls of my geek sanctuary at home. I've read almost all the published novellas/shorts in this collection. The following are firsts for me:- The Hope of Elantris- The Eleventh Metal- Allomancer Jak and The Pits of Eltania- White Sand- Edgedancer (cos it's NEW!)Amongst those which I've read before, The Emperor's Soul and Secret History were already on my favourites shelf. For Shadows of Silence in the Forests of Hell and Sixth of the Dusk, both earned 4-stars for the enjoyment that I never failed to obtain from reading anything written by Sanderson. However, this time around with the solar system essays, the experience was heightened as the knowledge of the system/world in which the story resides gives rise to a (slightly) better understanding and more burning curiosity. The rest of the other stories (except Edgedancer) ranged between 3 to 4 stars, with The Hope of Elantris and The Eleventh Metal book-ending the range of ratings. The excerpt for White Sand (i.e. just the first two chapters) was intriguing. I really love how Sanderson puts his characters through trials by not giving them an easy way out by being overpowered or having them being affected by certain 'disorders' (for eg. depression). Edgedancer - the most anticipated novella release of the year simply because fans were starving for anything new on The Stormlight Archive. The story picked up after the events at the end of Words of Radiance (so don't read it until you've finished WoR!). In just 40,000 words, Sanderson masterly expanded on the world of Roshar and the character of Lift and Wyndle, her spren. Wyndle was just as lovable as Pattern and Syl (Kate Reading narrated him perfectly!). Lift was still awesome but immature (almost annoyingly so sometimes), but the events in this story forced her to grow up a bit. Even then Lift will always be Lift A ShardFork!! Only she can think of that.. because food! For this novella, nothing less than 5-stars (come on, it's Stormlight - DUH!)November 2017 just can't arrive soon enough.