This was really interesting in that I was able to explore a lot of the Cosmere including places that i haven’t read about yet, as well as going to back familiar planets and systems. I also really liked the artwork and the way it features illustrations of all the systems which I just found to be cool because I’m a nerd like that. It wasn’t quite a five star as some of these short stories were weaker than others(there were several that I loved as well) and due to that, I think a four star rating is fair. Here’s my thoughts are each story in here.The Emperor’s Soul - 10/10. This was the only reread for me in this collection and my goodness I love it so storming much(wrong planet, IK, but same universe). It’s probably one of, if not my favourite short story of all time, it’s fantastic.The Hope of Elantris - 5.5/10. This was fine and I liked being back for a little while with familiar characters from Elantris. It was pretty short and while it was interesting to read, I found that it didn’t really add much.The Eleventh Metal - 5.5/10. Much like the Hope of Elantris, it just didn’t read add anything for me and wasn’t very meaningful and I wasn’t too invested in it. It was good seeing Kelsier again however.Allomancer Jac and the Pits of Eltania - 7/10. This was amusing to read and the footnotes were funny. I just wasn’t overly engaged and while I liked the more humours way of story telling it was’t my favourite things ever. It was nice to see more of Era 2.Mistborn: Secret History - 8/10. I had no idea that this was about Kelsier and that we would see so much more of Kelsier, who is one of my favourite characters from the Mistborn trilogy. It also explores much more of the inner workings of the Cosmere which I thought was super cool and interesting. White Sand - 7/10. I don’t normally read a lots of comics/graphic novels. I thought that this was was fun and interesting. I actually do think I preferred reading the part in prose that tells the same story as the comic novel however.Shadows for Silence in the Forests of Hell - 7.5/10. Like Sanderson noted in the postscript, the start is weaker than the core of the story. I was initially slightly confused, but also wasn’t very invested in what was going on. The main arc though was really interesting and I liked that a lot. It’s also just a really cool world.Sixth of the Dusk - 8/10. I found this to be pretty cool and I really liked the two main characters which I thought were really interesting and written quite well. The world was also interesting and it was cool seeing a world that is slightly more developed in some aspects of tech, much like Mistborn Era 2 is.Edgedancer - 9/10. Lift is so great. She’s such a fun and fascinating characters to follow and Wyndle, her spren is also really cool. Roshar is simply such an amazing world and I love being in it. It’s also interesting seeing how the ending events in Words of Radiance had in the rest of the world as that wasn’t really addressed in WoR. It almost felt a bit too long, but I’m not really complaining as Lift is just so much fun.And that, are my thoughts on all the stories featured in Arcanum Unbounded. 8/10