reread#1 — 5★ forgot to mention. I read it with @Viki and @Hafsa this time and I loved it! So, thank you, you guys :)Perhaps life was not like books. Perhaps life was never going to be like that.Last year, I rated it 5 because I loved it so much and because I'm usually biased when it comes to Cassie's books. Last year I thought this book was a bit too slow, and despite loving it so so much, I felt a bit disappointed too.This time, however, everything seemed perfect. Maybe because I've become a little more calmer than before. This book was very like "Queen of Air and Darkness" in terms of writing style and plotting and I LOVED IT! Also, I'm glad this book wasn't unnecessarily long like that one because that one was.ABOUT THE BOOKCordelia Carstairs travels to London with her family. Her main goal is to make a good relationship with some of the most influential family members so that she could take them on her side, explain the problem with her dad regarding which she needs help, and also make a good match with someone she can get married to because ... Reasons.Everything happens very smoothly and clearly, the drama starts from the beginning and the action is almost always there. There are complexities, misunderstandings, secrets, unexpressed love, I mean, everything you could expect from a shadowhunter book. It's not something new. In fact, it's something we know we'll find inside every time we start a Shadowhunter book; at least I do. But the way Cassie shapes the personality of a Character and the way she further develops them is fascinating as well as fun to read. The humour, whether it's 1800s-1900s or 2007-2012, is my favourite! Also the historical world set-up? Cassie does the very best at writing those. I love her books set in modern times but I just LOVE this Edwardian-Victorian time. And this probably falls under character development, but I really want to tell that I love how unique these characters are in terms of their backstory and personality. (Ofc, except Herondales)About the main characters,Cordelia CarstairsThat's everyone's dream, isn't it, really? Instead of many who give you little pieces of themselves—one who gives you everything.I really liked seeing how different Cassie wrote Cordelia from her other female Protagonists (Clary, Emma, Tessa) I personally loved her own family dynamic, having always traveled so she never had any friends, the way she felt like she had to help her father, the way she tried to never hurt her mother and how much she cared for her brother, Alastair, everything really kept me curious. Her love for James, on the other hand, not so much. I like their romance, I even ship them, but I think it's too much drama for my usual taste of shadowhunter-drama. The way she stood up for what was right and never hesitated to tell someone when they were wrong, that was my favourite thing about her. This girl ... was definitely an amazing protagonist. However, even after my reread, I feel like I need more to know her better. (I feel the same for all characters, but) esp. her because she's the main character. I see she's been in love with James, I see how fierce she is and how loyal too, I've seen her hurt and it has hurt me for her too, and yet, something feels missing.By @adamar.artJames HerondaleI am a Herondale. We love but once.That is only a story.Haven't you heard? All the stories are true.hmm. I liked him. I liked his calm nature. But again, the Herondales-destroying-themselves-in-love. Oh boy. Please Cassie, please stop this. I love these Characters. I love these troubled Herondale boys, but just stop. It's not fair that you make us hurt for them and in the end give them a happy ending. Like always!! Why? Why can't they sometimes just be trouble-free and happy? And why are they always the ones to get importance?Is it just me? Because I noticed the wings in the shadows just a few days ago while I'm looking and admiring this fanart from last year!My main problem with this book isn't that characters don't communicate because that's obviously the part of age-old-shadowhunter-drama, it's that I was expecting more about Anna Lightwood, Lucie Herondale, Matthew Fairchild and Jesse Blackthorn, Grace and Tatiana too, which I absolutely didn't get. But oh well, Cassie could only do so much in the first book so let's see if she gives me what I wanted in the sequel.⚠️ SPOILER ALERT ⚠️About Characters and relationships while also getting into the plot, so I'll definitely discuss scenes I loved. Kindly avoid reading ahead if you don't wanna be spoiled.CHARACTERS—Jesse BlackthornThink of me as on the threshold of a door. I am unable to take a step outside the door, and I know I can never be allowed back in, to live again. But the door has not closed behind me.The most underrated character in this book. I want his pov from when he first met Lucie to when he got shocked Lucie could still see him, I want his pov from when she visited him when she went with Cordelia to when he visited her the time Will called her "Lulu", I want it all! How he felt for her, what he thought of her, why he was so ready to give his last breath away for her or anyone she loved, and I want to know just how much Grace and Tatiana had told him of their plans. I just need to know!—Matthew FairchildI should like to have a portrait in the attic, that would show all my sins, while I stayed young and beautiful.My Love. This boy deserves a world full of happiness and that's it. If he doesn't get to be happy, I'm gonna be very mad at Cassie. I love his Character, I love his personality, I love his dialogues, I love his sense of humour, I love how sincere he is and I love how intensely he feels things and loves people/his friends. This boy is just so imperfectly perfect for a fictional world and yet that shadow of the past won't let him fully live the way he could have. I deeply hurt for him everytime he remembers what he's done or gives a hint at what Alastair said or how he's reminded of his mom at times, I really hurt for him and just want him to have it in him to share his burden with someone and just ... Forgive Alastair. The way he makes people (me) laugh, oh! My heart is full of love for him. And yes, I want a long time pov from him too! Esp, after that whispering room scene and that scene in the end when he talks to Magnus.—Lucie HerondaleWhat was the point of having exciting things happen to you if you couldn't tell a story about them?Cassie's first character, (I guess) who loves writing, not sketching, painting, reading, etc. This girl has a lot ahead of her.She's gonna fall into trouble.And seeing the Chain of Iron cover, I'm assuming the plot is going to mainly revolve around her and her Will-like-reckless decisions, haha. Oh, I'm so in for it.I think, depending on how Cassie writes book 2, I might love her more than Cordelia. There's definitely a chance.And, I was a bit hurt the last time I read that she didn't love Matthew, but this time, I'm glad that at least she didn't play around with him by pretending she loves him just so he doesn't get hurt and that she was actually honest, because imo, in those times, relationships used to get affected easily regarding such matters. It was really amazing seeing how strong the friendships were that even such truths couldn't weaken the bonds.I also wonder who's ghost it might be that she saw. A Blonde boy. 🤔Oh, and I just love the way Lucie always steps forward in any matter of the Herondale family name."I see you have decided to follow in the long Herondale tradition of poor decision-making.""So have I!" said Lucie, determined not be left out.In fact, I loved her spirit when she said,I can promise it. I do promise it. I am a Herondale, and we do keep our promises.—Alastair CarstairsI chose the one where I wasn't made to feel like a laughingstock.And how has that worked out?Awful. It's awful.Um, please understand him. Please forgive him. I'm not saying I never hated what he did; I did. But not when I read Chain of Gold. In fact, when I read his story from Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy. And because I had read this first, I couldn't hate him. I just felt so many things. I hated what he did, I hated what his rumour-spreading made Matthew do, but I also admired him for taking so much care of Cordelia, I was actually happy that he was strong enough to face those he hurt so bad and prove he isn't the same boy from the academy. The things he was going through because of guilt, the insecurity he felt for Cordelia just because he thought James would take revenge through his sister, and lastly, the things he was understanding because of Charles for so long ... It was a lot.The things I'm glad about for him is that,he trusts his sister enough to include her in his personal matters andthat he knows that no matter what all wrong things he did, he was worth more than being in a secret relationship with that jerk, Charles.—Grace BlackthornMy mother made me her blade, to cut every barrier raised against her.Idk if you've noticed it or not but I've seen two sides of Grace. No, not the general, evil and pretentious side. Those are obviously there.What I'm talking about is the unfriendly and defensive side as well as the caring and helpless side. It might be my assumption or a seeing-what-I-want-to-see kind of case but I feel Grace genuinely cares about James. And I think she's mostly defensive because she sees the judgement about her in people's eyes.(for reference: scenes when she talked to Cordelia, Matthew, Lucie, and even Magnus in The Midnight Heir)I really think she could have left Tatiana, that "Tatiana could blame her for something" is just an excuse because most shadowhunters know how mad Tatiana is and wouldn't believe whatever she'd say about Grace, I think she wants to bring Jesse back so so much that it's part of the reason she doesn't want to go against Tatiana or even leave her. I think at least that much is true.I really hate the way she asked James to marry her even if they had to get their marks stripped, idc if it was a test, it was very cruel and unfair esp. when she knows he doesn't actually love her, and esp. when she knows it's just the influence of the Gracelet.but in the end, again, thanks to @El in Oz, despite hating some things Grace did, I'm not able to fully hate her. I really need her side of the story.Don't get me wrong, I LOVE this illustration of Grace but I feel like she looks way older than her age.—Magnus BaneThere is no better distraction in this world than losing oneself in books for a while.The most iconic character that Cassie has ever created! What was it that Matthew said?Ah, Magnus Bane. My personal hero—ch: loyalty binds meExactly! Mine too! There's just one thing that bothered me a little, which includes a spoilery paragraph from The Midnight Heir—a short story in the bane chronicles.He had promised Tessa that he would return, but now he found all he wanted to do was escape. He did not want to care what Shadowhunters thought of him. He did not want to care what would become of them or their children.He had offered help to three Shadowhunters this night. One of them had replied that he was beyond help, one had asked him to commit murder, and one had pointed a blade at him.After this, Magnus left London. And by the end of this book, he told in the meeting that Tatiana had asked him for that help in January. I was confused in my reading vlog but while writing this review, I just remembered that in The Penultimate Hours, Ragnor wrote Magnus a letter about what was happening among these shadowhunters, and I think that's what made Magnus come back to London again and I'm so happy that no matter how hurt Magnus gets, he selflessly gets ready to help anybody he can.Magnus. Is. Precision. ❤️✨by @adamar.artI am not going to talk about Anna, Ariadne or anyone else I'm missing because they just didn't have enough part in this book to talk about individually.All the rest of fanart is by @charliebowater.RELATIONSHIPS/FRIENDSHIPSI'll link it here—scroll a little, as the page count is almost over and I can't write more here.DAYS PAST CHAPTERSMy absolute Favourites! I enjoyed reading about these glimpses from the past, so so much.° Lucie meeting Jesse for the first time? Not knowing he was Jesse, I had already been so curious to know the boy, and oh! The way he laughed? He just, I knew he was gonna be a favourite and so he is. When he again met Lucie at the ball, told her he is Jesse Blackthorn, oh my! I was just wishing Cassie gave us Jesse's pov. That boy deserves it! I WANT an extra scene written by Cassie in Jesse's pov!° James meeting the oh-so-graceful, Grace. The way she approached him by calling him "Herondale boy". I was like, are you even real? I see, she isn't the real evil bitch here, Tatiana is. But she sure is her mother's blade and has learned a great deal of manipulation.° Grace put the Gracelet on James. I was so relieved when she finally took it back. It clearly showed she was tired of playing Tatiana's games and the first chance she got (when Tatiana was attacked), Grace took the Gracelet back from James. We didn't get any single scene from her pov but I'm assuming she cared enough about James to want to free him from that enchantment. The only thing that makes me sad and mad at her is that she confessed almost everything to James before putting the enchantment back where that Demon asked her to. My only wish for now, is that Lucie keep the words that demon said to Grace, in her mind and put the pieces together when she sees James is wearing the bracelet and acting unlike him. But I guess no one would pay that much attention. Alas! I'm so deeply sad.° When Thomas met Alastair on his holiday from his travel year? All I want to say is I ship them hard and I really appreciate Alastair's initiative towards Thomas, showing he's not the same academy bully, and making things as better as he could by having as much of a quality time, he could have with Thomas. Also, I'm glad Thomas sincerely gave Alastair a chance to prove he's become better than he was, even if it was because he was having butterflies, lol. 🤭° Matthew's memory of the crime he commited? It Seriously hurts me. Idk why some people think it's not much and he should get over it. In fact, I think if only Math shared it with someone, he even would have gotten over it. But something THAT big done for a rumour, that surely can't be easy when you keep it to yourself. Not just because you killed someone in your family, but because you didn't trust them enough to have so easily believed a rumour, and it sure can't be easy to forgive when: 1) that rumour was so sick, and 2) that rumour was reason you went that far, anyway.° Cordelia and Alastair's chapter? My favourite!To sum up, this book was a mess and it a mess of me too.Chain of Gold—Reading VlogStories connecting to TLH Characters:Nothing But Shadows 5★Cast Long Shadows 5★Every Exquisite Thing 5★The Midnight Heir 4★Prequel:The Penultimate Hours 4★Sequels:Chain of IronChain of Thorns______I cannot wait to reread this! Cassie writes the best historical/Victorian set up in books! ❤️