Note December 18, 2018: With much regret I requested that GR freezes the comments for this review. I am tired of constantly getting alerts and having to delete harassment. I really don't know why people can't get it into their thick heads that this is my review. They can disagree with it, but they don't have to come on here and attack me. God, just grow up already. Disclaimer: Fanbots and trolls will be blocked. I don't care if you think I'm mean to Cassandra Clare. I really doubt she's read this review and I doubt she's hurt by it. I really don't care if you think these books are great and that having a grand total of eighteen plus books in a series is a good idea. If you want to whine about it write your own damn review. Let me tell you a little story, boys and girls. It's how to over milk a series.Pre Step One: Start a ridiculous popular fan fic that you later use for the basis on your work. Never mind the fact you might occasionally borrow quotes and passages from other sources. If you get enough reviews you'll get noticed and eventually.....hello, publishing contract.Step One: Write a fairly decent YA series. It doesn't have to be great, but decent enough to have interest and a catchy theme that you can use over and over again. It also helps if you get a blurb from Stephenie Meyer.Step Two: Come up with a spin off (note, spin off should be fairly decent and better than the original).Step Three: Restart first series even though it had a decent ending so you can add in future conflicts. Add a bunch of annoying characters and unnecessary plot to claim there's room for more story.Step Four: Sell movie rights after a substantial amount of time so you don't look like a sell out and build a substantial fan base.Step Five: Graphic novel adaptions. Note, once spinoff is successful rinse and repeat step five.Step Six: After your first series starts sagging and your second series is about to wrap up announce a new series in addition to a lot of info books about your world.Step Seven: Edit your own info books and gets your b.f.f.s to write the essays so they portray you in the best light. Also, state you and your hubby are going to write a guide to your own universe as well. Because hey, info books worked for Stephenie Meyer and JK Rowling has mentioned a Harry Potter encyclopedia throughout the years as well. So that must be the cool thing to do.Step Eight: Get your b.f.f.s to help you write a spinoff with your best character-spread this out over time so you can keep getting those royalties.Step Nine: After second series wraps up and the hype for your movie starts announce you'll be writing at least two more series (it also helps if final book in said series has a family tree which will make fanoholics want to know what happens with these characters and write fan fic that might be better than your own work).Step Ten: Relish in the green. You're a true success now. Also work on licensing out games, toys, etc. Heck, maybe you can get your own theme park/production company if you're successful enough.Amendment Post City of Heavenly Fire:1) Pimp your new series with brand new characters in your last book. So that it's almost a prequel to that series. And furthermore, feature your other spinoff so fans and people who want to know what's actually going on other than feeling stupid the entire book, will have to read the eight other books prior to this epic finale.