If you're a Cassie Clare fan, ignore this review because you're gonna love the book. But if you're like me, with not enough brain cells to fathom rereading every Shadowhunter book and every little novella in between, you should probably read this book with the Shadowhunters wiki page pulled up in another tab. I'll give this book its credit where it's due: I think Chain of Gold features my favorite cast of characters yet. Usually in Cassandra Clare worlds, I'll only be able to locate two or three characters I care deeply for and I skip the chapters of the rest. In Chain of Gold, however, I loved every character. You get the perfect balance of being reunited with old characters (ahhem, jem step on my neck) whilst falling in love with new ones (matthew and anna, stomp on me). The writing is great, this book is transporting, all is well. But Cassie Clare books have ceased to be books that you can read with little effort. Because this book follows characters who have novellas about them already, you're expected to go into this with a lot of background knowledge. I had none. And I was baffled for nearly 300 pages before I finally stopped to Google everything. I hope the final copy has a family tree or a character guide to spare y'all the time. There are easily 10-15 moments in this book where the characters are like "hahaha remember when this happened??" in reference to the events of a previous novella, meanwhile I'm just chillin' with crickets in the background because I wasn't told there was an entire prequel to this new trilogy. I'm not sure if I'd go as far as to call it lazy storytelling to require so much extra reading on top of the 600 pages of development in this book, but it was definitely annoying that I felt I was witnessing the middle of a character arc rather than the beginning of it.  Even though I grew to love the characters (after I was finally able to distinguish who was who), not much happened in this book. If I were going to spoil you, there's probably only two or three major events to describe. Although this was one of my most anticipated releases of 2020, I found myself procrastinating picking it back up to read because it just isn't that exciting. I'm giving it a bit of credit because it's the first book in a series setting up the plot, but for a 600-page book, it was still a bit excruciating at times.Another disappointment was the romance. It felt like there was none except one or two scenes, even though the synopsis almost revolves around Cordelia's crush on James. (Side note: It's a stretch to consider Cordelia the main character of this book. It follows the entire cast of characters almost equally.) This book lacked the angst of Cassie's previous books, though likely because a majority of the build-up and action occurred in previous novellas. Also, the time period makes sexuality and lust a lot more taboo, so that might have played a factor in why there was so little action I craved. All I've said sounds super negative, but once I got into the groove of this book, I really did adore it. There's lots of nods to previous series with Will and Tessa and Magnus and Cortana and certain little Easter eggs that were so fun to find. Part of the reason this book wasn't 5 stars for me is entirely user error since I didn't read the prequel novellas, but I'm also just disappointed that Cassie Clare books from now on are going to be so difficult to read because they'll have required you to read her 20+ book series arc just to understand the basic premise and characters. So although this book took a sec to get through, I'm really looking forward to the sequel and I would like to thank not only God but Jesus that we've been spared too much of a cliffhanger.