4.5 starsOoh, I enjoyed this book so much! Came for the magic school from the perspective of a non-student, stayed for the nuanced characters, skillfully told mystery, refreshingly adult perspective, unreliable narrator, and all-around good writing.Ivy Gamble is a lonely private investigator, who spends her days stalking cheating spouses and disability claimants and telling herself she definitely doesn’t want to have magic like her glamorous, estranged twin sister, Tabitha. Then she’s offered a job investigating a possible murder at the fancy private high school where Tabitha teaches. It’s a chance to try on a different life as Ivy tries to unravel the many secrets there, while making another attempt at a relationship with her sister and a romance with a sexy teacher.The plot is fun and commits to being a murder mystery—the bulk of Ivy’s time is spent on investigation and interviews—where in a lot of fantasy, the mystery is something of an afterthought. I’m not a big mystery fan, but enjoyed this one. It’s consistently moving forward, with enough clues that readers can come up with convoluted theories along the way and that the answer seems obvious in retrospect, but enough misdirection that I didn’t figure it out in advance. Most fantasy mysteries I’ve read don’t really work—either there’s too little information provided, or the answer is too obvious—so I was pleasantly surprised by how much fun it was trying to figure this one out.The setting is also fun; I love a humorous juxtaposition of magic and mundane, and the combination of a magic school with, for instance, people who talk like real modern people, including teenagers who act and sound like teenagers, is so enjoyable to read. Tidbits like the school secretary griping that girls these days just want the pill rather than learning their bodies well enough to do birth control by magic, and kids using a spell to send each other notes folded in the shape of a Pokémon, really make a setting pop: this is an author who both gets the real world and has folded magic into it. (I’m starting to think I prefer modern real-world settings in fantasy, I just dislike most of the urban fantasy genre’s tropes. Books taking a contemporary fantasy setting in an original or literary direction so often appear among my favorites.)And while the writing is clean and unadorned and the plot moves quickly, this is literary enough that you have to appreciate flawed characters to enjoy it. Ivy is a self-destructive mess with some flawed thinking that’s much more obvious to a reader than to herself (as I suspect would be true for most of us if we had readers in our heads!). There’s power in having a story full of magic told from the POV of the one character without it: there’s this aching longing feeling about the book, Ivy wants magic so badly and can’t have it, she feels herself an outsider even when others don’t necessarily see her that way, and the reader is right there with her because after all, we don’t have magic either. We too are only visitors to this place. And Ivy’s damage feels realistic and also mundane—she went off the rails when her mom died of cancer when Ivy was in high school, and Ivy couldn’t deal with her twin having gifts that she didn’t and sometimes being a jerk about it. Compared to a lot of fantasy this feels a bit “that’s it?” until you remember that a lot of fantasy is way over the top and in the real world, this can totally mess someone up. It’s a trauma that’s actually fathomable, that brings Ivy down to earth, and so much of this book is about bringing fantasy tropes down to earth.And the character work is excellent; I had the sense throughout that these were real people, not fantasy cutouts, but people with lives of their own of which we’re only seeing a small glimpse. Ivy’s difficult, tentative relationship with Tabitha is excellently drawn, and Tabitha herself is a great character about whom the reader ultimately can understand more than Ivy can, caught up as she is in her own emotions. Marion Torres seemed so fascinating I was very sorry to see almost nothing of her in the second half. Overall there’s a lot of great women here—the cast tilts female—without their either turning into a bunch of Strong Woman stereotypes (everybody has their flaws and limitations and Gailey doesn’t seem to be trying to make some point about strength), or being about gender or patriarchy.The portrayal of the teenagers is also great: it’s very much from an adult perspective, someone looking back from her 30s and remembering what high school is like (and wishing she could have gone to a high school like this), but at the same time, far removed from all that now. So the teens come across as actual teens, with their drama and their lack of perspective and their desperately trying on identities and their absolute certainty that they’re right. I think it would have made me defensive to read this book as a teen. But it feels very real as an adult. And it’s a lot of fun to encounter a Chosen One who’s not only not the protagonist but also basically an obnoxious kid who doesn’t have any obvious quest and is wreaking some havoc with careless and petty use of power. In fact, the Chosen One is currently the mean girl, but the end points to future character growth.Of course, there are a few things I didn’t love. There’s very little worldbuilding outside of the school, which while it’s not necessary for the story, leaves open some questions, like just how common magic is* and why it’s being hidden. There are a few elements of the mystery that don’t quite add up or make Ivy look less than great at her job (major spoilers behind the cut): how did Ivy never find out that Sylvia had been MIA for days before her death? And that Tabitha was also missing during that time? Sure, there was a bout of food poisoning, but the staff all live cheek-by-jowl in staff housing, you’d think they’d be aware who was home and might stop in to see if their ill colleagues needed anything. Wouldn’t Mrs. Webb upon seeing the body have immediately realized what had been going on? If she knew and was obstructing the investigation, why? Also, why was Tabitha’s journal in Sylvia’s house—even after all Sylvia’s belongings had been cleared out? Also, if Tabitha could very nearly perform this supposedly impossible operation alone, why couldn’t a surgical team do it? And how likely is it that someone could have cancer all over their body and a month left to live before having symptoms serious enough to bother going to the doctor, or ever missing work?Finally, I wasn’t thrilled with the end. It’s fitting and was clearly set up from the beginning, but also a bit of a downer. And Ivy’s personal epiphany seemed to me the wrong one for this story. The epiphany she actually has: that the reason she’s alone is that she avoids forming relationships with people. It seemed to me she knew this already and just couldn’t manage to break the pattern. The epiphany she needed to have: that she doesn’t need magic to be happy or loved or desired, and the “fake Ivy” she was pretending to be was actually her too. She never does seem to figure that one out.Overall though, this book was a lot of fun as well as smart and creative. I would love to see more like this and would definitely recommend. * Mages mostly being discovered by their grade school teachers suggests there are a lot of them, or these chance encounters wouldn’t be likely to happen. Rahul’s knowing the name of every high school a mage might attend in the entire U.S. suggests there are very few.