I am in love with a psychopath. That psychopath is Mad Rogan.I can’t believe I’ve simply been cruising through the year of our Lord 2022, going about my life, without realizing how amazing this series is. I devoured this 400-page book like it was a pamphlet, and now I’m going to dive into the rest like the thirsty bitch I know I am.This masterpiece is the story of badass private investigator Nevada Baylor and mega powerful psychopath Connor “Mad” Rogan.The series is set in Houston, Texas, with the small addition of magic into people’s everyday lives. Some families have more magical powers than others (the most powerful ones are called “Houses”, like in Game of Thrones, lol) and their members basically choose their partners with the single purpose of breeding even more powerful children. One of these nepo babies is called Adam Pierce, a guy who controls fire and is essentially an immature, bratty, spoiled teenager in the body of a twenty-something literal arsonist.Nevada and Mad Rogan’s paths cross in their search for Adam. Nevada is looking for him because the parent company to her private investigation firm is blackmailing her into bringing him in to his family before he is caught by the police, while Mad Rogan is searching for him because his cousin’s son is running around committing crimes with Adam and his mom was like, “Hey, I know we haven’t spoken in decades, but I do need you to bring my son home so he isn’t shot on sight by the cops”.The meet cute happens when Mad Rogan kidnaps Nevada in public and takes her into his dungeon so he can interrogate her and steal all the info she has managed to gather on Adam. I can’t put into words how hot it was, I’m sorry.Anyway. The two of them basically team up and decide to look for Adam together; that way, Nevada can bring him in to her boss and Mad Rogan can find his cousin’s son (also his cousin, you know what I mean).Their partnership is so filled with sexual tension and frustration and just, ugh, it’s so, so good. Nevada is understandably apprehensive towards him due to, you know, the fact that he murders people all the time, sometimes in front of her, and has in fact kidnapped her that one time. But he doesn’t take pleasure in it! He just… lacks a certain empathy.There was SO much going on in this story – the world building is scary good and every single character is interesting and fleshed out. I was so into the whole thing.If you haven’t read this book, RUN, don’t walk!!!