Reread 2023: Just as good as ever. I still kind of hate the cover. ----------------------There was a fluid, magnetic grace in the way he moved. All those muscles I had been admiring yesterday were just a by-product of his journey toward his goal. And the goal was power. Raw, lethal power. All of him, his incredible strength, his blinding speed, his flexibility, dexterity, and stamina blended together to achieve an almost feral savagery. Tiny hairs stood on the backs of my arms. It was like watching a god of primal human violence dance, and I couldn't look away.Ummmm...... wow.WOW. Anyone else feel a little hot and flustered?Please nobody stone me for heresy when I admit this: Burn for Me is the first and only Ilona Andrews I've ever read. (I'm sorry! I'll do better!)But color me impressed. Burn for Me contains the sort of pure storytelling and character-building skill that makes you face unapologetic psychopaths and absolutely fall head-over-heels. Exhibit A: Mad Rogan. aka The Scourge of Mexico, aka the dragon, aka bae"Is that why you joined the military? To get away from your family?""I joined because they told me I could kill without being sent to prison and be rewarded for it."What's the obsession with a mass-murdering megalomaniac? Well. I can't really explain it. Nobody's forgiving his homicidal tendencies because Rogan is mad hot. The Andrews couple infuses his character with a whole lot of spicy darkness but just enough light to melt all readers instantly. The master authoring behind Rogan's character alone convinced me that the Andrews are a winning team.Also.The whole cast of Burn for Me, major and supporting, is fleshed out in loving detail and complexity. Each character has a depth that makes you constantly second-guess what you assumed upon first introduction. It's hard to guess the true villains and heroes of the story.I especially enjoyed the attention given to minor players. For example, Nevada's family didn't exist purely for advice and support of the main heroine; they all had personal motivations and backgrounds. This bonus really added to the credibility of world & plot. Not that I'll ever care as much about anyone like I do about Mad Rogan.