I'm not one of those readers who swears a favorite author can do no wrong. I feel I have to say this because it seems like every time I pick up an Ilona Andrews book, I find myself fawning all over it, like a teenage girl with her first crush. BUT IT'S REAL LOVE. I SWEAR.This book rocked my socks off as much as any Kate Daniels book ever has. And while the Andrews team has a unique voice that is unmistakable, this book is not Kate: Part 2. The world-building is fantastic and utterly different from the some of the tired UF/ PNR templates I find in so many books of these genres. I loved the heroine. I loved the hero. I loved the unpredictable progression of the plot. And I loved the foundation of a romance that promises to be spectacular. I'm going to stop gushing for a moment and tell you a little about the story.It takes place in world where the wealthy and powerful wield magic, and create influential dynasties surrounding their skills. One of the strongest members of one of the most powerful families has gone rogue and now small-time PI Nevada Baylor is tasked to bring him in unharmed. She doesn't want the job. It's way out of her league, but circumstances force her hand and before she knows it, she is tackling a job too big for even the police to take on.Mad Rogan is a force just as powerful as Nevada's target. Maybe even more so. Which is why she wants nothing to do with him. But he has his own reasons to want to capture Adam Pierce and he knows Nevada may actually be savvy enough to do it. He pushes his way into her investigation --and into her life-- sparking a mutual attraction she can't control and he doesn't want to. Their mission is dangerous, exciting, and completely captivating from beginning to end.Nevada is impossible not to like. She's devoted to her family. She loves them and she's kind of taken over the mantle as the person responsible for them all. I love how Andrews paints these characters. They feel so real. They have quirks and color that make you feel like you know them; you can see why they mean so much to Nev. I love how smart the heroine is. How she tries to be practical instead of reckless. How she is so vastly powerful but has absolutely no idea.Rogan is totally badass. He can level cities with a thought. He is every bit the dragon of Nev's musings. But he is also more than that. I feel like she can teach him so much about what it means to be human... what it means to feel. The sexual tension between these two is off the charts. Her reactions to him are so hot and every time they touch, I am glued to the page.So I mentioned the great characters, the phenomenal world-building, and the scorching sexual tension. But I also have to give a shout-out to the awesome pacing and funny, funny one liners. Right in the middle of a serious conversation or observation, we're treated to inside jokes on tortured heroes and snake-penis metaphors. I laughed out loud more than once.It's smart. It's engaging. And I wouldn't change a thing.Disclosure: I beta read for this book. But I already considered it an A-read on the first pass. And I swear, if I didn't like it, I would tell you.*ARC provided by author for review