*****5/3/2017*****There is a Mad Rogan POV scene on IA's site!!!!!http://www.ilona-andrews.com/rogan-po...5 If I Could I Would Kidnap IA And Make Them Tell Me Stories Forever StarsThere might(definitely) be untagged SPOILERS.In 1863 European scientists discovered the Osiris serum, a concoction which brought out one’s magic talents. These talents were many and varied. Eventually the world realized the consequences of awakening godlike powers in ordinary people. The serum was locked away, but it was too late. The magic talents passed on from parents to their children and changed the course of human history forever. Those who previously married for status, money, and power now married for magic, because strong magic would give them everything.Now, a century and a half later, families with strong hereditary magic have evolved into dynasties. It is a world where the more magic you have, the more powerful, the wealthier, and the more prominent you are. Some magic talents are destructive. Some are subtle. But no magic user should be taken lightlyIn a world where Magic is the currency that talks and the Houses(families with strong magic genes) rule the world, Nevada Baylor is a very small fish in a huge pond. She works as a PI and she loves it buts he also carries the responsibility for her family's wellfare on her shoulders since her father's death. When MII, the company who owns their mortgage, sends Nevada in a suicide mission to deliver a Prime(the most powerful magic users) pyrokinitic who doesn't want to be delivered, back to his family, she has two options. Deny the job and lose everything, the bussiness, the house, the cars and all their savings, fail the job and lose everything, or succeed and earn a considerable amount of money. At least her family will get the bussiness back if the worst happens. Reassuring? Not really.So Nevada has to manage to talk Adam, a narcissistic psychopath who has taken a liking for her, to return to his family and as if that wasn't enough, Mad Rogan, a Prime telekinetic with off the charts power, is after Adam too and is willing to walk all over her to get there. The chances of survival don't seem in her favor.What can I say that will describe IA's brilliant minds? This is the first installment in a brand new series, a brand new universe and I wasn't bored for a minute. The world building and the story were so well-done that I felt like I knew the rules from the beginning. No struggling to understand, no slow parts that magic is explained in length. They let the story flow and gave you enough information to keep you from being confused but not enough to overwhelm you.Nevada is a brilliant heroine. She has Kate Daniels' spirit and snark but she is more responsible, more logical and not quite as quick to jump in dangerous situations. Just like Kate though danger seems to be drawn to her whether she wants or not. I liked how relatable Nevada was with her everyday problems of keeping her family bussiness afloat and her not always being the biggest badass around town. She is also highly moral and surprisingly law abiding which is a nice change for an UF heroine. The fact that she has a magic talent that must be hidden if she doesn't want to end up forced to do a job she won't like only adds more to the story.And then comes Mad Rogan. Mad Rogan is powerful, arrogant, completely lacking in empathy and thinks everyone is beneath him. He is by all accounts a sociopath and makes no excuses. He used to work for the military but has retired and at the moment he has zero purpose in his life until he is given a distraction in the faces of Adam Pierce and Nevada Baylor. He could level a town with his power and probably wouldn't feel much regret later, he kills with hard, cold logic just like he does everything else in life. In a world full of badasses he knows he is the most badass of them all.“You have no regard for human life,” I said. “You saved the city, but I don’t think you did it because you genuinely cared about all those people. I think you did it because Adam Pierce got under your skin. You hire desperate soldiers, but you don’t do it to save them either. You do it because they offer you unquestioning loyalty. You rescued your cousin, but you had been content to ignore the existence of that whole branch of your family. You don’t feel that rules apply to you. If you want it, you buy it. If you can’t buy it, you take it. You don’t seem to feel bad about things, and you offer gratitude only when you need to overcome some hurdle. I think you might be a psychopath.“I can’t be with you, no matter how crazy you make me, because you have no empathy, Rogan. I’m not talking about magic. I’m talking about the human ability to sympathize.”Adding to the awesomeness of the book is the fact that despite Nevada's attraction to Rogan she doesn't jump in bed with him. There is insta-lust but they don't act on it so it doesn't count. This is something that IA always do well, they develop the relationship, give it time and space to mature and by the time they get there you know why, you can't deny that they belong together. As frustrating as the unsatisfied sexual tension is, the end result is definitely worth it.Also the bad guy of the story is suficiently cruel and demented but he isn't the one pulling the strings so we see the foundation for a bigger story arc. I want the next book so badly. We'll see how this develops but I have every faith I will ove it.The secondary characters... IA know how to do secondary characters. From the overprotective mother who never misses a shot, to the crazy grandmother who loves a good eye-candy and is always there for everyone, to the teenage troublemakers in the family, they are all special snowflakes, hilarious and full of awesome. “You're Mad Rogan!" Leon burst out."Yes," Mad Rogan said, his voice calm."And you can break cities?""Yes.""And you have all this money and magic?""Yes."Where was Leon going with this?My cousin blinked. "And you look . . . like that?"Mad Rogan nodded. "Yes."Leon's dark eyes went wide. He looked at Mad Rogan, then glanced back at himself. At fifteen, Leon weighed barely a hundred pounds. His arms and legs were like chopsticks."There is no justice in the world!" Leon announced.“If you’re really hard up, I can introduce you to my grandmother. She’s a fan.” Adam blinked. “She doesn’t typically sleep with pretty young things, but she would make an exception in your case. You might even learn a trick or two.” “Do you have a girlfriend?” Grandma Frida asked. I put my hand over my face. “No,” Mad Rogan said. “A boyfriend?” Grandma Frida asked. “No.” “What about . . .” “No,” Mom and I said in unison. “But you don’t even know what I wanted to ask!” “No,” we said again together. “Party poopers.” Grandma shrugged.”Coming to a close to my description of why IA is awesome... I'm looking forward to knowing exactly how powerful Nevada is and how her exposure will go down. It is obvious she will turn out to be a Prime after Rogan's cryptical comment when she was ranting about all the Primes' problems.“You know what your problem is? ‘You’ as in Primes, in general?”“I think you’re about to tell me.” Mad Rogan leaned forward with rapt attention.“Your problem is that nobody ever tells you no. You think you can do whatever you want, enter wherever you want . . .[...]You play with people’s lives. When cops show up, you wave your hand and make them go away. Because you are Primes and the rest of us are, apparently, nothing.”“Mhm,” he said. “The irony of this is so rich, it’s simply delicious.”“I don’t see what’s so ironic about it.”“I’d tell you, but it would ruin the fun.”Yeap... I can see it coming already.That's all for now. It's a mile long worship letter!:P***************************************Re-read April 2015