I've read many books this year. I've given only 11, 5 stars. 7 of these are by Ilona Andrews. If that doesn't tell you how good they are and that you need to check out their books, I don't know what will.Ok, not enough? Fine. Let's see, why would this book be worth it? First, I need you to forget that beautiful hot  cover (the male model doesn't even look good, for God's sake...) and the title (because it's not what you think it means). Now let's see the content:➀ Awesome family. Yes, this is #1 because we rarely see good families in books. Most of the time, parents are dead, the MC isn't on good terms with them, or they're bad but he/she is trying to earn their love. However, in this book, they live together: Nevada, her mother, her super cool grandmother, 2 teenage sisters, 2 cousins (yes people normally have cousins), and they all live in a warehouse. I don't think I've ever read a book in which the adult MC actually lives with the parents. And is happy with it. It felt kinda weird even though it's the normal thing to do in my country... it's so rare in novels nowadays. Thus, I naturally loved this aspect. The family’s bickering was so entertaining as well.➁ Nevada. This girl is amazing!!!! Yes, she might not have the strongest powers, yes she might not be able to use her own magic to kill, but she definitely can handle herself. Confident, snarky, smart, and resourceful, she’s all I can hope for in a heroine. She’s a living lie-detector, perfect for her job as an investigator. I honestly wasn’t sure if I should expect another Kate (who is my favorite heroine ever) but I’m glad that Nevada was so different and yet just like Kate, doesn’t take shit from anyone, she can hold her own ground, she's her own person, and is also badass.➂ Mad Roger. I’M SWOONING. He’s just perfect. He's a bit the anti-hero. The slow burn romance was so hot and just exciting. Don’t be fooled. This is no romance book, though. It has heavy world building, more action, and very little kissing. So the title and that damn cover can totally trick you (in a bad way) but don’t let them. Seriously, if I need to give an example why people shouldn’t trust covers, I’ll just give the Andrews books as an example. Anyway, back to Mr. Roger, his interactions with Nevada made me want to pick the next book now. But alas, my tbr list always gets in the way. Yes, he does try to order her around but she stands up for herself. The difference in his behavior comparing to the start is very clear. He’s murderer who can do this tactile stuff that well... I’ll let you find out if you ever read this book. It’s like explaining how a jet flies to someone who has never seen a plane. ➂ The world-building. After the release of a serum back in 1871 that gives humans supernatural abilities, things got messy. Those with great magic abilities (pyrokinetic, telekinetic, aerokinetic…) pass their abilities to their children (the stronger the parents, the stronger the children's magic and therefore, they only marry for power). Each powerful family forms a House, on the head of it, a Prime (highest magic rank). The more magic you have, the richer you are. Some didn’t have big abilities but minor or not, a magic user should never be underestimated.➃ All the characters. I loved them all from Nevada and Mad Roger to Adam Pierce. Grandmother Frida, who is obsessed with hot guys like a teenager, is simply hilarious. She’s so precious, I adore her. I hope she survives this trilogy. Even her mother is cool. Everyone has his own distinctive character. ➄ Addicting plot. The book is full of action, mainly shooting people, burning people, and chocking people. It’s also fast paced and addicting. The romance is to die for because it’s so hot, intense, and most important of all, slow. Nevada doesn’t buy his shit. I love the sarcasm in the Andrews books. A lot. I won’t talk more about the plot and let you know discover the story for yourself. You only need to know that Nevada is forced to make Adam Pierce, pyrokinetic prime, surrender to his family and Mad Roger needs to find his cousin who is associated with Pierce. Therefore, she’s forced to work with him since he has the manpower and some information.If you’re a fan of Urban fantasy, this book is a must read. If you aren’t, it’s still worth checking out if you like these stuff. I just think Ilona Andrews is so underrated and I wish her books were more popular. I mean I only see people way older than me reading them so I can never fangirl except with some very few people (*cough* Annie (whom I BR this book with). So yeah, please try this book! But if UF is not your thing, you don't like alphas and such stuff, this book isn't for you.