Review coming when I stop being so pissed that I wasted so much time reading this.Edit; my review. I regard the From Blood and Ash books as somewhat of a guilty pleasure, I know they aren’t perfect, but that doesn’t stop me from enjoying them. But the quality declined with the third book, and I can’t even regard this prequal as an even a guilty pleasure. That would imply that there was something pleasurable about it. I was just irritated and annoyed. Because we already read this one? It’s so similar to the other books, for me this read like a draft for those. The only change was giving the characters other names. I get that this book is set in the same world, but that doesn’t mean you can’t make the characters indistinguishable from each other. Sera/Nyktos and Poppy/Casteel have the same personalities. Several scenes are just recycled, from Sera being trained by a guard, the love interest going by a fake identity to the stabbing in the heart scene. They even have the same “joke” about Sera being violent and wanting to stab people. If I wanted to read From Blood and Ash again, I would just go back and read that book. What also gets recycled in this book is the whole “I hAvE a QuEsTiOn” thing. Which I now hate with burning passion. It was cute in the start when Poppy did it, but it’s getting real tiering by now. It’s just a really bad and lazy way of doing world building. It makes every single conversation an info-dump in disguise. Every single conversation is just a Q+A, I tried counting how many questions I could find in a single conversation, but lost count somewhere around 40. It also makes the book lack any real conversations, because every single one is just added to provide some information for “world-building”. It feels like the characters never get to know each other and I, as a reader, never get to know them either. I want my books to get conveyed with “show, don’t tell”, but here it’s all tell and zero show. Why must all information be presented in form of questions and answers? Why can’t the characters go exploring and learn things through experience? Because honestly, you shouldn’t need a 700-page book to explain the world you tried building for another book series, when you already had three books to do that. So I have to drag myself through these info-dump, Q&A conversations, just to have them recapped in the next chapter. Because then a new conversation is added where it gets brought up that Sera met someone and retells what they talked about. It’s like Armentrout must highlight what was most important in that conversation. And that itself is a testament that the conversations are too info heavy. I also feel like JLA makes several things too obvious and tries to hold the reader’s hand. “And I also think you forgot to list acting alongside making bad choices as one of your many… talents.” I sucked in air that burned my throat. What he was referencing didn’t pass me by. He was talking about him and me on the balcony.Like here, I immediately knew what Nyktos was referencing without the clarification. It’s honestly a bit insulting to the readers intelligence to think that we wouldn’t understand without it being put into writing. This book needs better dialogue and better world-building, it can’t all be questions. Because Sera’s inner monologue is also just questions and it’s driving me insane. And even after 700 pages, I still don’t know what this book was supposed to clarify regarding the mythology. It just kept adding different creatures, we have gods, primals, craven, vampry, ascended, godlings, chosen, drakens, dakkais, vikktors and I don’t know what else. The descriptions for these gets glossed over in like half a paragraph and it makes me so confused. I don’t know the difference between several of these. I need like a lexicon or something. This book also lacks any sort of plot. After 160+ pages, we hadn’t even gotten to know Nyktos name, he as still just referred to as “the god”. The annoying thing was that this continued even after we knew his name. After 300 pages Sera finally goes to the Shadowlands and I thought the book would finally start. But no, then it was just Q+A conversations. Even one of the main plotlines failed to deliver. Sera is suppose to kill Nyktos, but I was never under the impression that she would actually go through with it. She hardly contemplated it. Instead, it was insta-love deluxe and he started fingering her before she even knew his name. And then when it gets revealed that she was sent there to kill him, everyone is just “K. Cool, bro”. There were no repercussions? Everyone just immediately forgave her, because Nyktos liked her? But then the betrayal is even worse?? Because insta-love isn’t really my thing, I didn’t connect to the romance at all. One thing that made it even worse was that the characters were so immature. I already had to suffer through genitals being referred to as “goodies” in one of Armentrout’s other works. It gets a similar treatment here; ”If it makes you uncomfortable, I suggest closing your eyes or keeping them off my unmentionables.”Unmentionables? Really? Are words regarding genitalia like Voldemort or something? Or like “Bloody Mary”? Do we summon something evil if we say it three times in a row? If you can’t say the words penis or vagina with a straight face, you’re not ready to have sex. The characters childish approach to even mentioning the words regarding their bodies, made them seem like tweens. So I was just uncomfortable reading the steamy scenes, and just skipped them. The language felt way to modern and also childish at times. But this book is supposed to take place like a thousand years before From Blood and Ash. I don’t think they would use the word mouthy, daddy or fuck. I also don’t think they would talk like this:“Especially since they are driven mad by unending hunger and thirst. They tend to get a bit bitey.”No adult would use the made-up word “bitey”. Sera also gets the traditional Armentrout treatment. She can be strong, but the males has to be stronger than her! Frustration scorched my skin, stroked against the icy heat in my chest, as did the knowledge that even with years of training, he had still easily rendered me absolutely harmless. All the women that JLA writes is always strong and badass in description. But when it matters, like when she is attacked, she can do nothing but scream and flail until a man saves her. I mean, she tried, I will give her that. But she never goes winning from the encounter without help. But even if Sera could handle herself, she would probably fuck it up some other way. She trained her whole life to be whatever Nyktos wanted, so he would fall in love with her. Didn’t work that well. All that did was that he was taking me as his Consort. That gave me a real opening. A chance. It gave the kingdom a real chance, but my mouth… gods, I had no control over it, and this was insulting. But she would throw that all away because he said something that hurt your feelings? Does she think her feelings are more important then the whole kingdom? Then she finds out this:“It is not often that a Primal dies. The loss of a being so powerful can create a ripple effect that can be felt in the mortal realm. Could even set in motion an event that has the potential to unravel the fabric that binds our realms together.” But Sera still thinks the only way to save her kingdom is killing Nyktos. A Primal. Did she miss the point were killing a primal could end the world? She doesn’t know if there’s someone else that can take over his power. Well, I guess no one would starve if the world ended, so that’s one way to solve it. Are we also ignoring the fact that the world is called Lasania? It’s just lasagne with a different spelling. Are we really naming the worlds after our dinners now? What’s next? Pancake? Ravioli? I honestly don’t know what the point of this book was. There was like 30 pages of material relevant for the other books, this was just an excuse to fawn over other eyes with a different colour! Me and Armentrout’s writing don’t get along anymore. At this point I’m unsure whether I will read any more books from this world. Maybe I will feel different with some time apart.