"Make him fall in love, become his weakness, and end him."
Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ (more like 4.75)❗❗May contain some spoilers. Proceed at your own risk.❗❗I've got to be honest here. I was a little worried about this. A Crown of Gilded Bones was a tad disappointing and I was worried that this would be the same. But, THANK GODS it wasn't. It was just as good as From Blood and Ash and Kingdom of Flesh and Fire.This was so, so, so good!!!!! The plot was pretty damn well written. I was intrigued and completely focused on the story. I couldn't put the book down. It was such a bummer when I had to go to class or study for a test because all I wanted to do was read this. Also, I don't see a need to mention how amazing the spice scenes were. Not that anyone expects anything less of JLA. She is the master of making you 🥵🥵 There was so much delightful mystery that kept me at the edge of my seat. Also the need to see that turd Tavius die what sooo deep and intense I was picturing myself doing it. I am so glad Sera killed him and I'm especially glad for the way she did it. Gruesome and glorious. I actually got up and danced around my room. while I was reading it. I kinda hoped Sera's mother would die too but alas she did not. Oh well...there are more books coming, no need to lose hope just yet. I loved that the reader knew who Ash was from the beginning but Sera didn't. I thought that was a nice touch. Pretty funny, too. Not to mention the badass scene of him showing up and rescuing Sera from the turd, killing all the guards, yelling at her garbage mother, and then taking her away AT LAST. If I didn't want to grab him and kiss him before (which, of course, I did) that would definitely do it for me. I should also say that JLA's ending was cruel and evil and she needs to go to bad authors' jail for what she has done. What kind of monster would just end a book like that?!?!? Do you not care about our sanity at all, madam?!?!?!What definitely needs to be mentioned are the delightful mentions of Poppy and Casteel. Especially, "If I had a child, or if any descendants of mine had been harmed, I would burn through both realms just so I could flay the skin from the body of who'd hurt them." - (I can't wait to see this happening in TWoTQ)AAAAAND"But I also saw her. I saw them. A Chosen and a descendant of the First. A Queen of Flesh and Fire. And him, a King risen from Blood and Ash, who ruled side by side with man. And they...they felt right. They felt like hope." - (there were some crazy, animalistic squeals coming out of my mouth while I read this)BUT, as good as this book was, and it was pretty damn good, there were one too many parallels between Sera x Ash and Poppy x Casteel. Instead of creating a story of their own, it is as if JLA copied Cas and Poppy's story and pasted it on Sera and Ash. It was kinda cute at first, but it became pretty annoying later on. The whole dynamic of the two couples was identical. I don't think that was necessary to the story at all. Not that I'm entirely complaining, however, I did like the similarities a little bit, but it was just too much, which is why I redacted a few points from the rating.Furthermore, all the characters were SO well written!! The Gods in Nyktos' Court were so awesome, I want to live in the Shadowlands with them, now. I loved Nektas, in particular, his faith in Sera even after it was revealed that she was planning to kill Nyktos was soo sweeeeet!!! The kids, Reaver and Jadis were so adorable, in either form. I love them unconditionally 💜💜 As for our esteemed couple, Sera and Ash, I couldn't get enough of them. In spite of the too many similarities between them and Poppy and Casteel, I thoroughly enjoyed every single scene between them. The tension, the sense of rightness, those cliched mating sensations that didn't bother me at all, the 🔥🔥🔥🔥. Everything. Although, Sera thinking that Ash doesn't love her is ABSOLUTELY STUPID AND INFURIATING. Like seriously?!?!?! How can she not tell he's head over heels in love with her already!!! Not that he is capable of admitting it just yet but it's still reeeaaally obvious.The next book better come soon because I am LOSING MY FREAKING MIND!!Check out my reviews of the sequel series:From Blood and AshA Kingdom of Flesh and FireA Crown of Gilded Bones