Holy Shit! That was afuckingmazing!!! 😍JLA gifted us with a badass hero and heroine, action, angst, humor, betrayal, intense emotion, violence, sex, perfect pacing, beautiful world building, twists and turns, brilliant writing, and baby. freaking. draken., what more could we ask for?!I was so worried that I wouldn't enjoy this prequel as much as the Blood and Ash Series, but I could not have been more wrong! Sera and Nyktos are amazing characters on their own, but they're perfection together! Their chemistry and banter gave everything that Casteel and Poppy's does, and I honestly questioned which couple I liked more by the end of the book! If that's doesn't show you how good A Shadow in the Ember is, I don't know what will!I loved discovering all the ways in which this story connected to the one we already know and love. It was so much fun to try to connect the dots as I read. When I finished, I even went back over a large part of The Crown of Gilded Bones to fill in all the missing pieces. There's a ton of information in these books, so it was necessary for me to get the clearest overall picture. It definitely added another level of enjoyment for me. If you remember everything from the Blood and Ash series in the kind of extreme detail that doesn't require you to add this step, especially after several months have passed, then I'm jealous of your brain! LOLI can't express to you how fucking excited I am to see what the author has in store for us in the next installment of the Flesh and Fire series! I'm equally ecstatic about getting more of Cas and Poppy's story! I'm telling you, this series has me in a chokehold. I can't get enough! The Blood and Ash Series is one of my absolute favorite fantasy romance series of all time! Jennifer L. Armentrout has always been of my unicorns, but she has continued to blow me away to a degree few other authors ever have. I cannot recommend A Shadow in the Ember and the Blood and Ash Series enough if you're a fantasy fan! This might just be my favorite book of the year!