full review now hereeee!LMAO I finally sat my ass down to write this review LOLOLOLI have been procrastinating writing this since I finished the book and cried instead of studying for my test which was a day after. Wow. Anyways, this was such a beautiful, beautiful book. My heart pains to see that it’s so good and yet so underrated! (pls read it lol)I loved everything, and it’s been a WHILE since I had absolutely no complaints in a book. The thing is, I want to read the next books ASAP but I’m not getting money until May 1. THEN there are 999999 book releases in May which I want to buy and basically WHAT THE HELL DO I DO?????I have a crisis going on everyday ignore me and read the review pls CUZ THIS IS WHAT YOU CAME FOR. LIGHTNING STRIKES EVERY TIME I WRITE A REVIEW OOOOHHOOO OHHOOO HOOOO(I think this was funny??)Things I liked!•I loved the writing style. The starting is painstakingly slow and the first few pages were so bloody confusing that I wanted to DNF it. But thank god I didn’t!!! It all gets better in the flashback parts! It is part second person and first person and basically there should be more second person books because I think I love that sort of narration style the most.•All the secondary characters were wondrous. (except one, which I’ll get to later) I loved Gabriel even though he was for a short while in the end only, and all the other people who helped Nathan.•The plot started out really slow, but god damn was it addictive!! I read this in 12 hours. YES YOU HEARD THAT RIGHT. Now, I know I am a really fast reader and I can read a book in day, but 12 hours is insane even for me lol. (I had to stop to go to swimming and to class. Yeahh. Not fun at all, I know. But you know what! I am a responsible person! Ok not really) •Nathan draws!!! I love to paint and do artsy stuff so I was so happy to see that he had a hobby!•This emotionally drained me and that should be a bad thing but like still?•I always love books which talk about the topic that what is evil and what isn’t. Nathan is half black and half white, BUT how do we know if he is evil or not? The white witches were fucking awful and evil throughout the story (and can I murder them??? This is called a taste of your own medicine IMAO) What I liked was that everyone has evil in them and no one is purely 100% good or bad.•NATHAN. CRIES!!!!! I’d say that yes, he has gone through so much shit load of torture, that crying is justified and pretty reasonable. BUT. I see a lot of time in fantasy (and in other books too) that boys don’t cry. This is obviously a dumb stereotype. Even if a guy in a book is going through a lot of shit, he will never cry and that pisses me up to no extent. Like BITCH PLZ. Boys do cry!!Things I disliked!•The love interest was mehhhhh. I was expecting a lot more from her but in the end I was so disappointed. TBH I think something shady is going on with her. (also I ship Nathan and Gabriel so she is just intruding here)Overall thoughts- Half Bad is a wonderful, wonderful book and it will rip your soul out, so keep tissues, chocolate and your cousin’s cat on your side SINCE YOU WILL NEED THE THERAPY AFTERWORDS. ____________________This book fucking drained me emotionally. I haven't cried this much in a book AND IRL in years.Review to come when I feel like my emotional state is better