“There’s power in the touch of another person’s hand. We acknowledge it in little ways, all the time. There’s a reason human beings shake hands, hold hands, slap hands, bump hands.“It comes from our very earliest memories, when we all come into the world blinded by light and color, deafened by riotous sound, flailing in a suddenly cavernous space without any way of orienting ourselves, shuddering with cold, emptied with hunger, and justifiably frightened and confused. And what changes that first horror, that original state of terror?“The touch of another person’s hands.“Hands that wrap us in warmth, that hold us close. Hands that guide us to shelter, to comfort, to food. Hands that hold and touch and reassure us through our very first crisis, and guide us into our very first shelter from pain. The first thing we ever learn is that the touch of someone else’s hand can ease pain and make things better.“That’s power. That’s power so fundamental that most people never even realize it exists.”  15 books in and what do I say? Well, the first thing is that Skin Game is a beautiful and poignant novel. It's just brilliant. It doesn’t have the depth nor tackles the heavy themes as Ghost Story and it's not as impactful to the series as Changes, but it's special. This is easily the most fun I’ve had reading a Dresden Files novel, however, do I think it’s the best? Nope, but it's just a masterfully crafted piece of art. Sure, the plot isn’t as ambitious as Cold Days and the overall scope isn’t that large in the grand scheme of events, but the execution of the plot is just brilliant. Yes, this is just a heist, just handled with so much care and love. Once again, Butcher's dialogue has just gone progressively better as my previous reviews have indicated as such. Here Butcher stepped up his monologue game and it's fantastic. The quote above is a good example, when it appears in the text, it just hits you at the core. There isn’t that much philosophising but because it's dealing with Michael and his family the theme of faith once again is explored tastefully. Moving on to my thoughts on the monologues, you can’t help but be engrossed, sometimes makes you ponder and at times just cheer. One of the biggest strengths of the novel is tone, the balance of humour and emotions is handled so precisely, he doesn’t undermine the serious ramifications of actions with a joke, but he is also self-aware when some aspects can be a bit goofy. An example the Marvel Cinematic Universe often undermines its character, plot, emotion and stakes for quips & jokes. Whereas Butcher is often more deliberate, he uses humour and those moments of levity as a great contrast to those serious moments. At times enhancing the serious scenes in the process.An advantage of this novel compared to the rest is the antagonist. Nick is just amazing and is so interesting. Dresden's main antagonist of a given novel (not side) is usually a one note, but Nick is just built differently. I’ve already talked about him in my Small Favor review so it's that but him with even more layers, so it makes his dynamic with Dresden so engaging. I do like that hint of vulnerability from their last encounter and makes him feel even more of a threat. Because if you make him tick, shit will go loose. Anyways both the main antagonist and side antagonist are fascinating so it's interesting to observe. I don’t think this needs to be stated but the pacing was incredible, with no dull chapters throughout. At times I would zone out in certain action sequences which is more natural for me in this medium. Spoiler thoughts:  This will just be a mess of thoughts without too much organization, I apologise.Firstly, the character development is bloody fantastic. The exploration of fatherhood was handled beautifully. I loved Maggie wanting to have those connections that have been lost to her. The reason she loves Mouse so much is that it’s a connection to her family. Dresden and Maggie's relationship reminds me of this one quote:  “Through the blur, I wondered if I was alone or if other parents felt the same way I did - that everything involving our children was painful in some way. The emotions, whether they were joy, sorrow, love or pride, were so deep and sharp that in the end they left you raw, exposed and yes, in pain. The human heart was not designed to beat outside the human body and yet, each child represented just that - a parent's heart bared, beating forever outside its chest.”― Debra Ginsberg (definitely applies to Dresden)  When Dresden saw Maggie playing with the other children, this is how I interpreted Dresden’s feelings. One could view it as a reflection of his purity manifested into an individual. But yeah, some beautiful father and daughter moments and easily one of my favourite scenes in the series. The connection between these two is something I wanted from Cold Days, and I am so grateful it appeared.One element I thoroughly enjoy is the exploration of fatherhood. Butcher contrast Nick’s family with Dresden’s family in a cool fashion. It's a very enjoyable contrast, I was shocked by Nick’s daughter, and how much character she has this time around, whereas, in the prior books, I barely thought of her existence. I assume because she died in the entry, which is why Butcher built it up, however, I think it's handled rather tastefully. One of my favourite conversations in the book concerning her, is her explaining to Dresden how father and daughter is not an adequate term to convey their unique relationship. As it’s been an ongoing process for centuries. Which makes you ponder, yeah if you have had a familiar relationship for centuries how would that dramatically alters throughout the course of time. But yeah, that conversation I thought was genius because of how it’s recontextualized when Nick kills her as a sacrifice. With that new context, it brings a new meaning to the death, it's not just one of father and daughter, but arguably even more sacred. As soon as this unfortunate incident occurs it makes the mother's action so much more relatable. She wanted her sweet child to live but Nick overruled her safety. It makes you ponder what's perspective in this mayhem.I will say Molly's appearance was very sweet and heartwarming, her introduction and seeing her at the end. She’s my favourite character, so it's always wholesome to see her. I will say, I’m glad I read Cold Case beforehand, as I believe recontextualizes all her actions in this book. What her job entails and the sacrifices she must make and the restrictions that she must follow. So, overall, it enhanced my experience. I’ve already explored this on-and-off relationship (in my other reviews) between Murphy and Dresden. I honestly thought Cold Days would be the end of it but seems like I was wrong. Here I feel like there’s some finality to it. I really can’t imagine Butcher playing will they or won’t their relationship between them. So, it's unavoidable now, this is something that’s been from the beginning of the series so it's nice to see it finally concluding. But I will imagine something more horrible which will leave them separated once again, just a gut instinct from me. I do hope for the best for them, but I’m not entirely sure. Michael is one of my favourite characters and this novel was just a love letter to him. He had two exceptional moments in this novel alone, firstly the arrogance speech:   “That's arrogance, Harry. " he said, gently. "On a level so deep, you don't even realize it exists. And do you know why it's there?" "No?" I asked. He smiled again. "Because you have set a higher standard for yourself. You think that, because you have more power than others, you have to do more with it." "To whom much is given, much is required," I said, without looking up. He barked out a short laugh. "For someone who repeatedly tells me he has no faith, you have a surprising capacity to quote scripture. And that's just my point." I eyed him. "What?" "You wouldn't be twisting yourself into knots like this, Harry, if you didn't care." "So?" "Monsters don't care," Michael said. "The damned don't care, Harry. The only way to go beyond redemption is to choose to take yourself there. The only way to do it is to stop caring.”  Such a profound, tender and beautiful moment, between two close friends who have been through so much. This notion of arrogance is beautifully showcased in Changes. When he got Molly to consent to his suicide attempt. The arrogance of thinking he can remedy the situation from his passing. Being isolated from Demonreach because he’s scared of what’s next. This speech can be reflective of so much of Dresden’s experience as a man. His friends are feeling alienated from him, isolated because of the lack of communication and not giving them the opportunity to properly talk. So yeah, one of my favourite moments in the series. Of course, the second fantastic moment is when he took up arms (being a knight) and faced down Nick. Truly one of the best scenes in the series, and it would be apt to call it, simply badass. You know how I talk about the arrogance speech above I feel like his responsibility towards both his children is a response to that talk. I’ve talked about Maggie above, so I will focus on the child he had with Lash. This is also one of my favourite moments of the novel when this was revealed. It immediately made sense to me, and that theme of responsibility and fatherhood goes full circle. It was such a sweet and tender moment overall. I loved Harry's banter with other Harry inside of him and how they approach Lash kids. She feels genuinely remorseful but because Dresden has isolated himself, once again communication issues arise from this situation. I hope she and Maggie become close sisters somehow, like them visiting each other as that would be sweet haha. But yeah, I never expected Lash to appear once again. But yeah, one aspect I love about this series is bringing back the ramifications and consequences of Changes, this is most evident with Ascher's character. Though Dresden has saved a lot of people from his action, he also caused harm in particular to the half vampires. It was sad as it was an inevitable choice Dresden wouldn't change, but that makes it even crueler because it was necessary. But necessary sacrifice is always cruel. Anyways I love the conversation with Lasciel unexpected but great.Man, that game-over twist was genius. How it was set and seeded from the beginning was remarkable. I didn’t suspect a thing with Grey nor Dresden’s plan but thinking everything he thought about until that moment it works beautifully. Part of the reason, I would love to reread this novel is to see how Butcher writes this twist, as it's so cleverly executed. Grey, I thought an intriguing character and by the end, you just have to respect his hustle. Especially his last conversation with Dresden and what Dresden had to pay for his service lmao. Now Mythology, I have to give credit to Butcher in this regard, I love his respect for mythology. Just throughout the series, you notice it but in particular here, his portrayal of Hades. The media portrays this dude incorrectly and I’m seeing a depiction of someone who gets it, which is pleasing. That conversation with Dresden was simply brilliant and opens the world even more. Furthermore, the conversation with Oden is always brilliant, the man has a unique aura around him. Finally Mab, oh boy she is scary. She is planning something big as the final couple of pages implies as such. I love seeing her character unfold throughout the last couple of books, that character is just brilliant. I just still have a soft spot for Lea because her genuine love for Dresden always resonated with me. I simply adore that dynamic, but yeah Mab climbing the ranks of being one of the most interesting characters in the series. Conclusion: In Conclusion, this series is simply brilliant, especially from Changes onwards. I love how the consequences of Changes-Ghost Story are very much felt here and recontextualise the prior novels in great ways. I don’t have anything more to say beyond I’m excited to continue.  9/10