Skin GameBook 15 of The Dresden FilesBy Jim ButcherA Review by Eric AllenSoooo... I understand that there are a lot of Dresden fans that have been rather abhorred over the very dark turn that the series has taken during and after Changes. I, for one, don't really understand why these people didn't see it coming. I mean, in the very first chapter of the series he goes to a murder scene where two people had their hearts exploded out of their chests with black magic. That should have been a pretty good indicator as to where things could be expected to go in the future. I think that there's a bit of a misconception amongst these people. They're looking at each book individually, rather than at the story as a whole. They're missing the overarching character development that Dresden is going through, and how this patch of darkness is a necessary thing. How can he overcome and shine more brilliantly, if he's not dragged through the mud, after all? The tension and drama in a story come from caring about the characters, and how much it hurts to see them suffering. And really, in a series that has now reached it's fifteenth volume, to keep things fresh and find new ways for Dresden to develop as a person, this sort of thing really needed to happen. Why? Because he's already faced all of the things he was able to face. Now he has to face the things he couldn't face before. The things that he fears within himself. It's the reason he does what he does, helping others at little or no gain to himself, because he abused his power once, and he is terrified of doing it again, and of the monster that he could very easily become. There is something coming on the horizon. Many people have hinted that Dresden has a destiny to fulfill. Before he meets it, he has to meet the darkness in himself and overcome it. So again, I don't get what all the complaining amongst Dresden fans is all about.Anyway, on with the review.Harry Dresden, Wizard for hire, and Winter Knight, has a bit of a problem. He has a psychic parasite growing in his head, and in three days it's going to pop out, kill him, and kill everyone he knows and loves. Using this as leverage, Mab has loaned him out to Nicodemus, one of his many, many enemies, to fulfill one of her debts. If he succeeds, the parasite will be removed. If he fails, he and everyone he loves will die. No pressure. Nicodemus is setting up a good old-fashioned heist to steal the Holy Grail from Hades, lord of the underworld, and must have the power of the Winter Knight to do it. But, as with just about everything Harry has ever encountered in his entire life, things are not as they seem.The good? When a series starts getting up into the double digits usually one of two things happens, either the story seems to lose track of itself and it wallows directionlessly under its bloated weight, or the characters stop developing because the author has run out of ideas on how they can continue to grow, so they stagnate, never learning anything new, and basically becoming a stereotype of themselves. Lucky for us, Butcher has not done either. Every book in this series is entertaining in its own right. Every book has its own contained little story that comes to a satisfying conclusion, while also moving the bigger story encompassing them all along to the next step. Dresden learns, grows and develops as a character in new and interesting ways in every single volume. Butcher manages to keep going, keeping things fresh with new ideas, new stories, new things to be overcome, and new internal struggles for Dresden to deal with. Each new volume has something new, that tries and tests Dresden in new and interesting ways. There is no sign of the stagnation that seems to seep into series that run this long, and that, my friends, is probably the biggest accomplishment a writer can possibly make. This book is amazingly entertaining. It has the right mix of action, humor, drama, tension, emotion, quiet moments, and everything else. Dresden deals with a lot of the baggage that he has been carrying around since Changes. It is, basically a story about Harry coming to terms with the choices that he's made, and coming to realize that he doesn't have to bear that burden alone. That he has friends that he needs, and who need him. And that becoming a monster somewhere down the line can only happen if it is by HIS choice. He still fears it, but it seems to me that he's finally beginning to get a handle on the wreck that was made of his life.I really like how authors in the fantasy genre have been reaching out and pulling in more types of stories into this genre of late, rather than reusing tired old tropes. Jim Butcher and Brandon Sanderson have both used the Heist plot very effectively in their fantasy novels, and Butcher added the private detective element as well. These seem like no big deal to people these days, but let me tell you, even just two decades ago, they would have been seen as HUGE innovations within the genre. These guys are the trailblazers, showing the world that they don't have to stick to their little corner of the fictional realm in their fantasy books, but can reach out and tell other types of stories within their fantasy setting. And I, for one, really enjoy where they are taking the genre.Michael completely steals the show in this book. He's probably my favorite Dresden sidekick, and has been since he first made his appearance back in Grave Peril. This book seems like it's more his story than anything else, which is strange, because he's only in about half of the book. For all of you who have been hoping for him to take up his sword one last time, and kick some serious ass for the Lord, you will not be disappointed. It is probably one of the more fangasmic moments in the entire series, in my opinion. It feels like the perfect bookend for his character arch throughout the series. One final ride for the old and broken Knight.The bad? Like I said, there was a pretty large outcry from many of the fans about how dark things started getting during and after Changes. A lot of people didn't like what becoming the Winter Knight was doing to Dresden. There are some places in this book where it really seems like blatant damage control to soothe those fans who were upset over it. Where people council Dresden, and make his situation out to be less terrible as it seemed in the previous book. In my opinion it somewhat cheapens his growth as a character through this patch of darkness in his life, but hey, the publishing industry is a business, and a chapter or three to reassure fans that everything will turn out all right in the end is better than Butcher losing a goodly portion of his readers, I guess. So eh, whatever. It wasn't too bad, but it really did feel as though Butcher chickened out a little, rather than plunging in deeper like I thought he was going to. We'll see what happens next, I suppose.In conclusion, this book is highly entertaining. It is well written, and even after fifteen books, Butcher finds new and interesting things for Dresden to do and face. Many writers just can't do that. They try and they fail, but Butcher has certainly succeeded. A lot of the rifts between Harry and the supporting cast are repaired to some extent, and he finally begins to heal after some of the terrible things he's chosen to do in the past. This one is a definite must for any Dresden fans. Anyone who has been complaining about the downward spiral into darkness that the series has been taking can rest assured that it appears as though good old Harry Dresden is finally pulling through it, as he always does in the end. I can't wait for the next one. Check out my other reviews.