Okay....listen very carefully, or if you're a stickler for accuracy...read very, very carefully:If for some reason, curiosity, accident or whatever you have decided to look at this review and you HAVEN'T read Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden books, stop whatever you are doing...reading this review, eating a meal, pretending to work as you browse the internet, surgery, having sex, whatever it takes, disconnect your IV tubes, put your oxygen tank on wheels NOW. Pick your favorite way to read a book, E-book, print book, audio book and go immediately to your favorite bookstore or download sight and buy them...all of them.Right now. Do it....I'll wait....Now start with the first Storm Front which is a good to excellent book. You have one of the most enjoyable reading experiences imaginable before you and you can't imagine how much I envy you the chance to read them all for the first time. The books hit their stride somewhere in the first few (a lot of us disagree whether they cross into the exceptional range in book 3 or 4) and they just get better. This one is I think the best yet...and I've said that before.This book may just set the standard for popular fiction. I love this book!We have often discussed the failings of our 5 star system here wishing for half stars or a 10 star system. A friend of mine suggested that we might assign the stars Gold and Silver ratings so you could have a 5 silver stars as opposed to a 5 gold stars rate. Here I'd have to go 5 Platinum stars.Really...not kidding, not hyperbole.From the first humorous lines to the last touching yet foreshadowing scene the book never once falters or gives a false note. For me and others who have read all these books this is a visit to friends we've made over years. We know Harry will inevitably say something he just shouldn't when being a wise-ass can only make things worse. We know that Karen has depths she's been holding in...and we know oh so much about others.Mr. Butcher brings my favorite supporting character back into the fray here and does it as close to perfectly as I think any writer could. Reading this book I was brought to tears no less than 3 times...And really, I'm a macho manly man...I drink sippin' whisky (note spelling) straight, I can shoot out a fly's eye at 100 yards...really, it still moved me. I cried like I would at a good steak.Look...bottom line before I say a few things more specific and under a spoiler warning...get this book. If you haven't read the Dresden books get them all. This book gets my highest recommendation...I almost need to start a new shelf, "POPULAR FICTION THAT STANDS ALONE".The story here picks up with Harry in the situation where we left him. Something is trying to get out of his head. Demon Reach and Mab have told him it will blow his head apart. He's been living on the Island unable to leave it as Demon Reach is keeping the thing in his head at bay.Then Mab shows up...and if I tell you anymore it will be a spoiler and I just wouldn't do that to you.I have one other thing to say but I'll put it under a spoiler warning: The character who comes back "into play" here is Michael. I won't say how as it's not necessary for what I want to talk about and I want you to have the pleasure of reading all you can as it comes.That said I'm a Christian...an actual practicing one (a non-Catholic one, not that it matters but Michael is Roman Catholic). Don't come here for theology or something like that. The relationship with angels and the way Grace works as well as God's plan aren't what you come here for. Study that on your own. All that said Mr. Butcher treats Christianity with respect and dignity you often don't see.I'm a Pastor and I just wanted to say thanks Mr. Butcher. Okay...just in case you didn't get the point: My highest recommendation...great book, beyond great amazing.Enjoy. Update, Jan. 27, 2015By the way Mr. Butcher...Jim, it's come to our attention that you're working on a new series. Could be good news, but sheesh, I'm 62 years old (update Aug. 15th...now 63). How long can I have to wait on the rest of the series Jim. I mean do you really need to take vacations? sleep more than 3 or 4 hours at a time? eat? Really?