Zacharias looked around, but everyone had ceased to pay attention to him. For the moment he was reprieved.He let out a small sigh of relief. As if that tiny breath were the key to his locked memory, his mind opened, and the spell fell into it, fully formed. The words were so clear and obvious, their logic so immaculate, that Zacharias wondered that he had ever lost them.He spoke the spell under his breath, still a little uncertain after the agonies he had endured. But magic came, ever his friend—magic answered his call. The birds carved upon the box blushed red, green, blue and yellow, and he knew that the spell had caught.The birds peeled away from the box as they took on substance and being, their wings springing away from their bodies, feathers sprouting upon their flesh. They flew up to the ceiling, squawking. The breeze from their wings brushed Zacharias’s face, and he laughed.One by one the carved bosses sprang to life, and the dead sorcerers and the sour old Green Men and the lions and the lambs and the birds opened their mouths, all of them singing, singing lustily Zacharias’s favourite song, drowning out the angry voices of the men below, and filling the room with glorious sound.You had me at magic Miss Cho.I LOVE magic.We are presented with an alternate version of historical England (think Pride & Prejudice meets Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrel) where the magical society is in a bit of an upheaval for two reasons. Firstly, the current Sorcerer Royal (think Head Magician) has recently passed away, but not before ensuring his successor, who is a black man and therefore despised by most magicians. For it is commonly known, that magic should only be done by white, privileged gentleman. Blood will always tell you know. Secondly, the magic in England is in decline and no-one knows why. Fortunately (read sarcasm),this problem has a convenient scapegoat in the form of a *gasp* black Sorcerer Royal.And so the new Sorcerer Royal, Zacharias Wythe, sets out to determine the reason for the decline and to return magic to England. It is in this quest that he happens upon a young lady called Prunella. She is dark-skinned. She is a women. She has no filter. No sense of propriety. And she has no fear. Oh, and she has more magical talent than just about all of the old, white men in England combined.“Can you conceive anything more absurd?” said a thaumaturge to a friend, in a carrying whisper. “He might as well seek to persuade us that a pig can fly—or a woman do magic!”The friend observed that so could pigs fly, if one could be troubled to make them.“Oh certainly!” replied the first. “And one could teach a woman to do magic, I suppose, but what earthly good would a flying pig or a magical female be to anyone?”The prevalent prejudice though, ensures that she has just as much of an uphill battle as Zacharias. For it is also known that women are too frail to practice magic, and therefore any young ladies with magical ability are sent to special schools where they are dissuaded from using it and at the same time subjected to horrible spells meant to remove these abilities.“Mrs. Daubeney knew just what parents desired her to inculcate in their inconveniently magical daughters: pretty manners, a moderate measure of education and, above all, a habit of restraint." Fortunately, Prunella is like nothing or no-one they have ever encountered. She will change everything they know...“Your amoral ingenuity in the pursuit of your interest is perfectly shocking,” said Zacharias severely.“Yes, isn’t it?” said Prunella, pleased.”Recommended!PS: A special mention to Mak Gengang, who clearly knows how revenge works.“Ma’am,” he said to Mak Genggang, “we had an agreement, as I recall. The thaumaturge who caused your coven such inconvenience has been punished. His familiar has been taken from him.”“I am pleased to hear it,” said Mak Genggang. “It is no more than he deserves. I should advise you not to stop there, but set fire to his house, too, and sell his children to pirates. That is the only way he will learn to abandon his wicked ways.PPS: That hint of romance and the nod at Pride & Prejudice at the end of the book was fantastic.