Rating, 3 stars. (more ranting than review)It started promising, with little Zacharias Wythe showing the Royal Society of Unnatural Philosophers, that he is a worthy apprentice to Sir Stephen Wythe, despite the color of his skin. Years have passed and following the death of Sir Stephen, Zacharias takes his place of Sorcerer Royal, something that because of his origins doesn't sit well with the majority of the thaumaturges (magicians/sorcerers).  Zacharias was born a slave. Sir Stephen saw something special in the little boy. He had liberated him (separating his fate from that of his birth parents), given him his name and the position in society that goes with it (no matter the society liked it or not) and honed him to become a powerful sorcerer.Prunella Gentleman on the other hand was raised by Mrs. Daubeney, and hes spent her youth helping her manage the School for Gentlewitches. She never new her mother, who due to Prunella's complexion must have been of darker skin, and her father, Mr. Hilary Gentleman had left her alone in the world when she was but a little child (presumably drowning himself). Mrs Daubney, Gentleman's lodger didn't know what to do with the little girl that had even then begun to show troubling signs of being magical. Because Ladies cannot be magical. They are too fragile and empty-headed to handle magical powers. It is not something befitting a young lady. It is alright for some village woman to be a witch and sell some potions and herbs. But real magic is for men, more precisely .... gentlemen (and with the right colour of skin). Learning how to handle a girl afflicted by magic, Mrs. Daubney changes her fortunes opening a school for young ladies suffering the same magical problems as Prunella's.  “Being a school for gentlewitches, it did not, of course, instruct its students in practical thaumaturgy. Mrs. Daubeney knew just what parents desired her to inculcate in their inconveniently magical daughters: pretty manners, a moderate measure of education and, above all, a habit of restraint."This book had all the elements it needed to make me fall in love with the story ... and then ... unfortunately it didn't. It had the interesting racial element that was underplayed. It had the possibility to shake the ground with the politics or war. The story unfolds on Britain during the Napoleonic wars. It had all the makes of great conflicts. Britain with France. The thaumaturges versus the British government. The thaumaturges versus the Fairy Court (even that was almost unused). And there was a botched attempt of romance .... don't look at me like that ... I don't count that as romance ... zero chemistry.By some blurbs and reviews this was described as a mix of Georgette Heyer's regency novels and Susanna Clarke's Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell. I didn't read any of Heyer's books, though I think I know what regency books are like. Maybe there's something in that claim. For the comparisons with Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell.....phleeese, no way. I mean I get the similarities. but for someone to say if I love Heyer and Strange, I would love this book. I did like parts of this book, but I loved all those 1000+ pages of Strange (footnotes and all), there's no way comparing these two.In the end I think my problem was that Prunella has turned out to be (after a few promising chapters) too hungry for power and position for my taste. "Prunella had no more interest in magical lore than a fish has in the philosophical properties of water."Ok, she doesn't have any interest in magic even if she is gifted with more power than many men ... I can get that. But she wishes to be powerful through a high profile marriage?! She wants to wed someone wealthy (not just moderate wealthy), excessively in love with her... and who would let me do whatever she wished. Greedy much?! I get girl-power. I love a kick-ass heroine that knows what she wants in life....but Prunella was too much for me. She reminded me of Alison Goodman's Eona, she was pretty hard to digest in book two Eona: The Last Dragoneye, but somehow I could get why she acted so power-hungry.... but with Prunella, not so much. So I ended grumbling to myself till the end of the book. And the ending ..... was that supposed to make me swoon??!Maybe it's me again. Usually if something rubs me hard the wrong way, I can't enjoy the rest of the book (And oh, don't make me start on that poor familiar .... what was that?! Surely they could have found another solution to Leofric).In the end Prunella annoyed me, Zacharias bored me .... and maybe I ended enjoying more smaller players like Damerell, Hsiang Han and Mak Genggang.Not bad, not great... an OK book.