"Only the man who knows freedom can define his prison." Do you know those blurbs that sound really interesting and make you really curious about a story, just for you to end up disappointed when you actually read the story itself? That's Incarceron's blurb. And yes, I've already find blurbs more interesting than this one, but still. It was intriguing and I was curious to read the story. But then I read it and I wish I hadn't. Let's start with the plot. It is so freaking dull I am surprised I didn't fall asleep. Finn's parts (being Finn a prisoner of Incarceron, a giant prison that is alive and whose location is known only by the Warden) should have been full of action and really interesting to read, because after all they are trying to survive in a place full of thieves and assassins where there's no rules, but the action that actually exists is definitely not enough to catch my attention for more than a few pages (and by few I mean one, two pages). And then we have Claudia's parts (being Claudia a lady from the the real world where development was forbidden and everyone lives like they were still in the XVI century). It seemed to be promissing me some political trama to make up for the lack of action, but I didn't get any! So it was basically me reading about a spoiled girl who doesn't want to marry and therefore creates an overcomplicated plan that makes no sense at all. Which leads me to the fact that this plot has more holes than a Swees cheese. Claudia's overcomplicated plan, for example. Close your eyes and imagine that you are a lady in the XVI century, meant to marry the future king, and you don't want to. What do you do? A) Run away. B) Try to find a reasonable way of getting off the marriage. C) Waste all the time you have to prepare yourself for option A) or B) trying to find a way to prove to the world that the dead Heir Prince is alive, even if you have no proof of that and everyone believes he is dead. Guess which option she chose? If you said option C) you are 100% freaking right. Now tell me, who in his/her right mind would try to do something like that?! I mean, c'mon. You may hope he is alive and want to try to find him, but at least have some sort of plan B) just in case you can't find anything. But oh, wait! This is fiction, so of course Claudia's unreliable and overcomplicated plan will work.  Then we have the whole thing of the Heir Prince being alive. Because the Queen wants him gone, so her own son can get the crown, but instead of killing him, she sends him to Incarceron, even if she is clearly fine with killing people. Okay, right. It obviously makes sense. But then again, it is fiction and if the Prince had been killed, Fisher would have no plot to work with, so of course he needed to go to Incarceron. 🙄 And you don't need to be a genius to guess who our Heir Prince is, do you? Yes, it is that obvious. And was obvious since the moment the whole dead/disappeared Heir Prince thing is mentioned. To be fair, though, Fisher made no effort to hide that fact, so I really don't know if she wanted the revelation to be a twist or not. What I do know is that it made me even more irritated with the plot. But then, I reached the end of the book. And was completly blown away by a series of unpredictable plot twists, that caught me completly off guard, because I really didn't think Fisher would be able to surprise me, and made me not only love the end but want the next book. WHY DO AUTHORD NEED TO MAKE BOOKS LIKE THIS?! I mean, WHY? Why can't I have an amazing book from the beginning till the end, so I can finish it and say without doubts that I want the next one? Why making me end it with this bittersweet feeling, wanting the next book, but fearing that it might be as dull as the first?! If only being dull was the only problem of the story! But it isn't. The characters are terrible. Flat and one dimensional. Claudia got in my nerves as I don't remember any character to do. Stupid little spoiled brat! I mean, she doesn't even really care about Finn, she only wants a way to get away from that stupid marriage. She is a spoiled girl throwing a tantrum. Period. Finn is well... I don't know. I can't even remember what he is supposed to look like. Personality traits? That I can remember, none either. All I can say is that in that dark world of Incarceron, he is the special guy. And it's basically that. Then we have sidekicks/friends that somehow could receive even less development than Claudia and Finn did. I can't even remember their names, sorry. The Queen and Claudia's father are evil. Because we need evil characters. And that's everything they are. It seems that being evil is a full-time personality trait and it's enough to describe a character... 🤷‍♀️ The only character I could actually like is a sidekick and somehow (and luckly) escaped from that group I referred and that got even less development than Claudia and Finn. He is Finn's best friend/brother-in-arms. The only character that actually got some personality traits I can remember. He is charismatic, cocky and a little crazy. Truth be told, I have a thing for this kind of characters, but still. It is hard for you to do not like Keiro when he is the only character with a personality.  Sadly, not even the world can escape my rant. I loved the idea. 100% loved it. Fine, whoever thought it would actually work was stupid beyond belief. It's not like the XVI century was a bed of roses where everyone was happy all the time. And of course no one can ever create a paradise, fill it with people and expect it to remain a paradise. People are not perfect and do not fit in a perfect world. But hell, the damn idea was amazing! I loved it and I don't mind to keep saying that. And I have nothing bad to say about Incarceron. It is just perfect. The whole live prison idea as well as its completly original location are absolutely amazing. But the real world part could have been so much better executed. It left me so many questions. I mean, technology is not allowed but the whole Warden's house is filled with it, to make sure everything looks like they live in a XVI century house. The Queen has a freaking elevator. And new things keep being created, even if they can't be used. I get the idea of Fisher wanting us to see that the idea of that idiot doesn't work at all and that humans can't live without technology nowadays. But my mind can't add all those rules broken by the ones who should want them to be followed and the world Fisher wanted to create. It just made me so confused during almost the whole book that I couldn't really appreciate the world as much as I wanted to. Overall, I can't actually see why so many people like this book. I won't deny that the world is genial, it definitely is, but the actual story is definitely not that good. I can't really say that I recommed this book, even though I LOVED those plot twists at the end, which makes me quite sad. And honestly, despite having it in my TBR list, I don't really know if I am going to give the next book a try. I am too scared of getting disappointed.  "Despair is deep. An abyss that shallows dreams."SCORE: 1.75 out of 5.00 starsYou can also find this review on my blog