If Alanna is Dana Scully (petite, sharp-tongued, redheaded; quick with a weapon, and with a penchant for shadowy corners and impossible quests), Kel is a (much less exuberant) Leslie Knope: hardworking, dedicated to civil service, willing to put in the work to make a difference in her community. I'll always love Alanna, but there was something particularly special about this latest comfort-re-read of Kel's story. I'll never be as selfless or stoic as Kel, as willing to stubbornly pursue injustice and stand up for those who can't—but I wish I was. It might be a problem with the novel that Kel has very few character flaws: while Alanna has a temper and Daine is shy and scarred, Kel is hampered only by her gender and the inflexible standards of the men in power. But I don't really care if this is bad writing or poor characterization, because what's important about Kel is that all of her achievements are driven through pure, sweaty, hard work. Alanna had the Goddess's hand on her; Daine had wild magic and a divine lineage. Kel has a powerful moral compass and an indefatigable work ethic and clear-eyed determination toward her goals. Kel has grit. And I guess this resonated with me because those are the qualities most valuable to me right now, the ones I most wish I could embody: grit. Hard work. Putting in the time. The clench-teethed refusal to accept power imbalance and the mistreatment of those who cannot defend themselves. In another context, it's easy to imagine Kel as a doctor. Protector of the small, carer of the sick. It's funny how many fierce, bookish women I've met over the years who cop to a childhood fondness for Alanna. We were special, we were strong, we took up our own swords in her likeness (literally, for my best friend Hannah, a collegiate fencing champion). But I wonder if, now, at 27, Kel isn't a better role model. To bring this back to Leslie Knope: in the Parks series finale, Leslie gives a commencement address at the University of Indiana. She tells the class about the virtues of public service, and ends with an exhortation: "Find your team. And get to work." It's a phrase that's echoed around in my head since I heard it, because it seems like the most important thing I can with my life at this point. Kel has a team too: she would not have made it through knighthood, to Scanra, without a solid core of people and animals willing to go to bat (and war) for her. And she did the work: she ran when she could have walked, she fought when she could have looked the other way, she faced her fears when she could have accepted defeat. I want to be more like her, and more like Leslie. Where's my sword?