I loved this one for its pervasive sense of play and its weaving of voices across time. Unlike the centuries spanned by “Cloud Atlas”, this one is grounded to the life arc of one Holly Sykes and it doesn’t wind backward. And it’s a lovely arc and a brave one too. Some early paranormal experiences lead her to grasp beyond an ordinary life to find answers, and the answers she gets forces her by the end of the book to take sides in a war between immortals. That scope you need to know, as the late breakthrough into full-scale fantasy does not appeal to many readers. I take what the chef serves. And if it seemed a stretch to get invested with adequate suspense of disbelief, it was still a pleasure to play along. Hey, I lived fine with E.B. White’s talking pig and Murakami’s Colonel Sanders, so people whose souls can persist by passing from one body to another didn’t spoil my pleasure. I think that, like in Gaiman’s “American Gods”, the absurdity of immortals in the mix of life on earth highlights by contrast the significance and meanings of being mortal. When first encountered in 1984, Holly is a typical rebellious teenager of 15 in a working class neighborhood in Kent, U.K., in 1984. She runs away from home to be with an older man and accidentally precipitates a family tragedy. Since childhood she has strange experiences which get labelled as hallucinations. Without knowing it, she has encounters over time with key people who prove to be enemies of each other. This antagonism reaches the level of a life-or-death conflict later in the book, where we return to Holly’s perspective sixty years later. In between we get four more sections focusing on other characters at progressive intervals, with Holly more in the background but big in a reader’s attention. I especially love the section titled “Crispin Hershey's Lonely Planet 2015”, which features famous lecherous novelist whose life is a mess. Maybe it’s a bit self-indulgent for authors to write about writers, but to me the satirical outlook on the publishing enterprise and verve of this guy as he makes the rounds pushing his books from Columbia to Shanghai was lots of fun. As in “Cloud Atlas”, the different sections of the book take on different writing styles, an experience I find exhilarating. Mitchell admits in interviews that his true avocation is to in creating novellas. If so, I don’t perceive a cobbling from their integration into one novel-length story with these two books. I find it kind of cool that he considers all of his books in some sense as one gigantic work (an “uber-novel”). Fans work hard to map out all the characters which span different sets of his books. Mitchell claims to have planned much of the trajectory of his books. Readers of “The Thousand Autumns of Jacob Zoet” may be surprised to learn that the Doctor Marinus in that late 18th century tale is the same immortal that turns up as a central character in “The Bone Clocks” and that a final third Marinus-linked novel in planned.The book hit the spot for me as a delightful flight of fancy about semi-mythical missions with some take-home lessons for ordinary schmucks lucky enough to return from Oz to Kansas. I come away with the sense that our self-centered focus on the quotidian present can be transformed by a frame in which the past and future are meaningfully connected. Maybe there is a bigger story we can play a part in; if not, it goes beyond free will vs. fate if you can use your imagination to treat the whole deal of life as a mystery or a puzzle. If you hope an author will figure out the meaning of life, and he comes back with an absurdity like here, it really whets the humble consumer to reach with ambitions for some scheme closer to the truth.For more serious delvings into the wonders, themes, and disappointments of this book I can't recommend more highly the reviews of Ian and Cecily.