As I finish this trilogy for the second time, I am - no kidding - hugging the book to my chest and willing for Phèdre's story to continue. That is how much I love Kushiel's Legacy. How do I describe my love for these books? Is it Phèdre's courage, to falter at no boundaries in order to achieve what she believes in? Or Joscelin's faith, to - putting it simply - protect and serve? Maybe it is that without a doubt, I would drop everything in a heartbeat to take up residence in Terre d'Ange and follow Blessed Elua. Whatever it is, these books make me think, they make me believe. I love them for it.Of course, these books are not without their flaws. Carey is a rambler; She goes off track more times than I ever bothered to count. She repeats the same thoughts over and over until you just want to scream, 'You know what? WE GET IT'. There are points in Phèdre's journey where I could seriously fall asleep. I cannot stand her continual musings of Hyacinthe, and how she always ponders what would have happened between them, as though Joscelin could be so easily discarded. And yet... And yet at the end of the day, despite its flaws, it is a brilliant story, an epic journey across lands and seas to save a friend, a traitor's get, and a country fit for angels. Kushiel's Avatar is the darkest novel to date, pushing all characters beyond what they thought was their limit. Even Melisande, who we always believed indestructible, displays her one weakness: love for her son. And that's what these books are all about. At the centre of this book - no, of this legacy - lies one meaning, and one meaning only: Love. In all its forms, in all that it encompasses, nothing is greater or more profound. Love as thou wilt, is Blessed Elua's precept. Love for a friend, or a lover; a son, a country, a people, a patron. Love within light, and love within hate. It is all we need in the end, and maybe that is why I adore these books so much. For such a complex series, the legacy is so simple. On a completely unrelated (and very foreshadowing) note... fucking Carthage! I realised that whenever I turned to the map at the front of the book, seeing Carthage just made my blood boil. It freaking takes up 2/3s of the map! It was totally leering at me in all its ominousness hahaha. However, I cannot wait to get into Imriel's trilogy again. It's hard to stay away from these characters for too long; that is how much I love them. I miss them too much when they're not running amuck in my head.