Contrary to the blurbs from the publishing company, this book is nothing like “Bear and the Nightingale” or “Spinning Silver.” I repeat, if you are looking for the glorious escapism of “Bear and the Nightingale,” the fine craftsmanship of “Spinning Silver,” or an exploration of belief in “City of Brass:” this is not the book for you. If you’re looking for a half-baked body horror/romance/magical adventure/ commentary on religious persecution/Game of Thrones fanfiction then this book is for you. And I hope you enjoy it.If you aren’t looking for that then: Buckle. Up. I’ve got things to say. First up, I want to explain my two star review because this book as a whole was not good. But I really wanted to give it one and a half stars because it did interesting things that I wish the author took time to develop and explore because they were actually really promising. The body horror magic system. This was really really cool. Like, I truly enjoyed seeing where it would go (it ending up going...somewhere?) and I did enjoy that themes of religious persecution were a major part of the book. As there were parallels to medieval Catholicism and Judaism, and how the Jewish people were treated terribly and kicked out of country after country. She calls them Yehuli and I found their story very compelling, and ultimately wanted them to be the focus.The thing I hated most about this book was it’s awful first person narrator: Évike. Or as she calls herself incessantly, “wolf-girl.” She’s awful. No wonder she was bullied mercilessly in her village. Okay that’s a joke and a bad one at that. No one ever deserves to be bullied. But if anyone *did* deserve it, it would be her. She’s so flipping MEAN. Like actually mean. She prods and pokes and goads and blames everybody but herself and she didn’t change. She’s a 25 year old brat who makes terrible decisions. She is chiefly mean to our Woodsman, Gáspár, who is an angsty prince just trying his best, and is constantly being insulted by wolf-girl as he keeps saving her life. We’re supposed to fall in love with them as she makes fun of him as they trek to the frozen north to do...something. Also she’s supposed to struggle with her identity but like....she doesn’t??? A request: STOP MAKING “DIFFICULT WOMEN” CHARACTERS PLAIN OLD ASSHOLES. IT’S NOT FEMINIST IT’S AWFUL. TOUGH WOMEN CAN ALSO BE NICE.Onto the next reason I disliked this book: the treatment of Gáspár. He never got to become a fully realized character, which was a shame because he was much more interesting then wolf-girl as he is not only a shunned prince but he is of mixed race- which is something that was never really addressed. I read this as him being the only dark-skinned person in this country, and his treatment in it flummoxed me. I am a white woman who is going to try to talk this through, and I acknowledge that I may not be the best person to talk about this, but I’m going to try.To begin: His mother is constantly referred to as being dark-skinned and being from the south, so I assumed that meant he is Black or Hispanic or just of a more Mediterranean skin tone in this vaguely Eastern European fantasy country. He is also referred to as the “black prince” and his “blood blackened” and having olive skin. Which to be fair, “black prince” is an sobriquet used to refer to a fierce reputation or status as the “black sheep” of the family, not their skin color. But it was never fully addressed in the book why he was called that exactly, and I was left with many uncomfortable questions about it. Was he called that because of his darker skin? Are we to assume that it’s the fantasy world’s racism? Do we conflate his outsider status with his skin color or his independent character? If so, why was this never addressed in any meaningful way? Why did Gáspár never get to talk about having a skin color darker than the people in country he rules over? Did he experience any racism? Or are we to just assume that he experienced racism because of our own reality- and is that in and of itself racist? I would have assumed that this was to be addressed within the world itself, and by wolf-girl herself as she called him the “black prince” to his face with an implication that this was negative. Why does she not apologize? Or is this just me bringing this reality into this fantasy? I don’t really have an answer, and that is very troubling to me. In a more skillful book, this questions would have be asked but also answered in some way. Maybe it was and I utterly missed it?To make a long paragraph short: the treatment of the only character of color was problematic and gave me so many unanswered questions. And I don’t think the author’s intentions were bad, I think of this as a victim of poor writing and not thinking every decision through.And thirdly, and most hilariously, was its very clear inspirations from the hit tv show “Game of Thrones.” Because this was actually insane. I, like many other people, enjoyed the show immensely and elements of it have stuck with me. Here are somethings from the show that I found in this book that made me think this began as a GOT fan fiction:-One-eyed religious zealot with a flaming sword-praying to The Godfather of Life (Lord of Light ahem) and things magically happen -wild woman with a bow (Ygritte) is taken by a man (Jon Snow) in a special group of soldiers who can take no wives and father no children -the Woodsman (Night’s Watch) wear flowy capes -someone literally says “winter is coming”-someone literally says “bend the knee”-someone literally says “widows wail”-someone literally says that everyone south of the north is a southerner There are also probably a ton more references that I missed but you get the picture. This is a book to skip.*Update 4/16* So I stumbled upon a preorder campaign for this book and there’s art available with the two main characters are featured and Gáspár’s skin tone is very dark and it makes me all the more confused about his treatment in the book.