[2.5/5]The Wolf and the Woodsman is Reid's debut fantasy about a young woman from a remote village and a disgraced prince who must work together to preserve the kingdom from the prince's violent, religious zealot half brother.And this book literally took me too long to finish. It has a good start and I was hooked at the beginning, but then it gets lengthy and I started to get bored. Plot:This book just has a lot to unpack. I've never been so absent-minded in reading a book, that I don't think I truly pay attention to its world-building. I was informed that the author literally studied ethnonationalism religious history which reflected in her writing that was indeed profound. The stories of the tribes and their beliefs were well written but the information started to get repetitive and long-drawn; especially when Évike keeps on narrating the same folklore, over and over.This book was also supposed to be a mix of Spinning Silver as well as The Bear and the Nightingale but mind you it does not even come close to measure what it's comparing. I'm not sure if this is just me? I don't think it's just me but I definitely failed to see the resemblance, thus the book fell short in being impressive. I just wished the book would end sooner since nothing happened for the majority part of it. Not until the last 40 pages where the plot started to pick up again.Writing Style:This is where my major problem comes from and it's not because the author writes poorly. It was decent and expository. However, the author style of using the same word or phrase over and over again is becoming apparent that it started to annoy me. "...cheeks still burning""...him and his flustered, prayerful blushing""My cheeks flush""The barest flush of his cheeks""No, he agrees, cheeks flushing faintly""...a blush deepening her exceptionally pale face"And trust me, the list doesn't stop there. I don't know how many times do the characters blushed/flushed/warmed their cheeks in every conversation they have. It feels like that is all they do to a point it is becoming their default. I am utterly flabbergasted. Romance:Definitely did not dig into the romance. I understand Évike does not have the best upbringing but I believe, instead of being deprived, that woman is simply horny. Get back to the repetitive writing style with one horny character. Insufferable. I am literally impressed with how Évike managed to think about how Gáspár's on every second she could; how his warm body was closed to her or for when they kissed. That narrative repeated for almost every chapter, it's exasperating. "...struggling not to think of his body flush against my own""...remembering the line of his body against mine""...I didn't imagine his body pressing along the length of mine...""My body remembers the shape of his, from so many nights curled together"You both are out there in a cold with nothing but the cloaks. Isn't it sensible to find warms in each other's bodies? Yet Évike's mind always seems to have wonders of its own. Characters:This also brings me to say, none of the characters here is likeable nor interesting. I have nothing to bring to the table. Not Évike, not even Gáspár. In short, this is a disappointment. This book could be for you, but not for me.