***2 stars***I know this is an unpopular opinion, but I did not like this book. And I must confess that the fault partly lies with me, because I did not read the blurb before I dived in. After having loved Miller's  Circe, it was a no-brainer that I'd want to read her take on the Trojan War - so I left it at that and just began reading. Lesson learned, because I wanted this to be more historical fiction, yet it was basically just romance fantasy - hence my disappointment.In this tale the narrator is Patroclus, best friend and lover of Achilles. Even though I haven't read The Iliad (yet), and I know that Patroclus was not necessarily one of the greatest Greek warriors, I do know that he played a major role in the Greek victory over the Trojans. And Madeline chose to portray him as a weakling in her story, which I think is a shame.From a romance novel point of view the love story between the two didn't work for me because I think that throughout the book Patroclus was too dependent and clingy and I don't like that type of relationship. His life only revolves around this great, beautiful hero and more often than not, it seemed that he was by Achilles' side on every step - even when he isn't supposed to be, he tags along anyway. I wish he was more of his own person, a more dynamic character and also a more competent fighter, instead of this physically weak person. I am a big enough romance fan, but at times this was too soapy for my taste.From a mythological novel point of view - if you are seeking a book about the Greek and Trojan war, I personally suggest skipping this one. In my opinion it is barely a retelling of myth, because only writing about the private lives, loves and bedrooms of classical gods/demigods/heroes does nothing to make us understand the grounds on which classicism was built. For me it was disappointing, since I really wanted the richness of the actual story and not just romance. Not only was Patroclus and Achilles' love story the main focus, it was pretty much the only subject matter throughout. Could have been really well done if the events of Troy were more thoroughly framed in the context of the love story.But hey! If you're looking for a socially relevant, modern treatment of a classic tale or simply for some romance fantasy, this might be the perfect read for you!