EDIT 20/10/2014: Reason for change in rating in comment 9. My original thoughts on this book can be found below:4.5 starsI've had my eye on Dorothy Must Die for a while now. Ever since the blurb came out, I've been eagerly anticipating the release because the premise sounds fucking fantastic. A dark retelling of The Wizard of Oz, an evil Dorothy and an assassination mission. My expectations were sky-high and Dorothy Must Die delivered.Its world-building is on par with the likes of Splintered, a dark Alice in Wonderland retelling. But where Splintered failed with its over-the-top romance drama, Dorothy Must Die kicks blushing and feelings to the curb and focuses solely on the main point: opening a can of buttwhoop on Dorothy.Paige spares nothing in showing us just how dark and twisted this Oz is. There are no singing munchkins or serene Good witches. Winged monkeys cut off their own wings to avoid being enslaved. People are melted for not abiding to Dorothy's laws. The Scarecrow liquidates the brains of others to make himself smarter. And when people die, it's not quiet and peaceful with time to whisper a few broken words of encouragement to the heroine. It's bloody and gruesome. The way wars are supposed to be.Because this is war. Amy Gumm is just a normal girl living in Kansas, until one day, a tornado plops her in Oz. She's soon recruited by the Order of the Wicked to kill the tyrannical Dorothy and get Oz back to the way it was.What I love about Amy is that she's tough, but holds the ability to be compassionate at the same time. She grew up in a trailer so she's used to taking shit from people. But she fights back when the time calls for it. She's not stupidly heroic or self-sacrificing for no good reason. She has a mission to do and she's damn well not going to screw it up for the sake of saving one person. She has perspective.Yet that doesn't mean Amy is not good-hearted. When she first came to Oz, she freed a winged monkey from his punishment because she couldn't stand to see him in pain. She helps others when she can afford to. And when she fucks up, she acknowledges it and learns from her mistakes. Amy is a competent and sympathetic heroine, and I rooted for her even when her actions were morally wrong. You can't always stand from a moral high ground when you're a spy in enemy territory. You do what it takes to stay alive and complete your mission. That's it. Also, I love the whole Good and Evil segregation. It reminded me of The School for Good and Evil. What makes us Good and what makes us Bad? Is there no in-between? And when does "For the Greater Good" cross over the line?That's why the whole Dorothy-being-gorgeous thing didn't really bug me. It's a like a facade because like in the School of Good and Evil, 'Good' is always beautiful. Though I do think the makeover Amy gets while at the Wicked headquarters is largely unnecessary and only serves to further the romance. Speaking of the romance, that's the only complaint I have for this book. It could've been better played out and I never felt any real chemistry between Amy and Nox. It was like the author just stuffed it in because, hey, every YA book needs a romance. Props for good development though. And I'm probably going to be booed for saying this, but I sort of wish there had been more love-dovey time. A balance along the lines of The Iron King would've been perfect. Just maybe not the semi insta-love part. To wrap things up, Dorothy Must Die is a brilliant debut for Wizard of Oz fans and non-fans alike. If you loved the fantastical world of The Iron King and Splintered, you will definitely enjoy what Oz has to offer. Be warned that it's part of a series so it might read like of a set up for future installments. But a kickass one all the same.