I really love Hades and Persephone the most but I don't know why none of their retellings ever fulfilled my expectation. And in all honestly, this book has an almost nonexistent plot with 85% smut scenes. Like, I love me some steamy romance book but this felt overdone that I get tired of reading them sometimes, ngl. However, owing to the wonderful embodiments of Hades and Persephone, I find myself enjoying this ♡ And I think your reason, feeling as well as circumstances when reading the book all play a part in considering whether you'll like it more or not. Because this book just quenches my romance thirst ass that was deprived after reading dreadful after dreadful books with lousy romance. Hence, the four stars. What I love the most about this book is definitely: Hades and Persephone. I love the excellent development in their romance. The banter between the two and how complimentary they are with one another. Like how excited Persephone was when Hades went and brought her to discover his places or just the moment they spent time together and Hades realized he is in love. That moment of realization!!! I AM IN LOVE WITH HADES IN LOVE!!!! Their relationship just strikes a mix between hot moments, kinky goodness, real love and compassion. And their chemistry?? Out of this world. I enjoy every bit of it (Just tone down a bit the horniness is all) but they're still so endearing. Also, this book offers me a new take where this is not really the magical Greek God retelling but mere ordinary people in the modern world. It still feels nice and interesting how Katee Robert tried to attribute what is often associated with these Gods who are not exactly a God such when Hades went to the pet shop and named the three dogs he adopted as Cereberus. Or Demeter whose position is to provide the food supply in Olympus parallel to the real Goddess Demeter. Although Persephone's character probably did not truly enhance as the real Goddess Persephone, if we were to look in a figurative manner, I think Persephone here is still well represented as goddess of spring growth. Seeing how much she has supported Hades and let him grow from his past and earning his place in the Thirteen Houses. It's just still a bit bummer because there were no magical powers to inflate the characters' potential to make the book more captivating and engaging. And the plot is still not adequate to carry the whole novel, added the lack of world-building which was kind of a letdown. I know this supposed to be a book that is heavy with romance as its focus but if they could balance out all the conflicts, plot and world-building, I think this book would've been perfect. And maybe just the right Hades and Persephone I'm looking for. Still a good and sinful read, if you need one 😉