Got lured in by a few tweets and tiktok videos promising a smoking hot modern day retelling of Hades/Persephone heavy on erotica. Yes, I will clickbait Persephone + Hades + erotica anytime.I finished this book with the feeling I had just read a poorly plotted mafia romance, the only greek mythology elements being the characters names and the only gods those Persephone would implore during a screaming orgasm. Sigh.World building fail is my first grip with Neon Gods. It was so vague. So blurry. I couldn't with the lack of on page character growth given to Persephone. One chapter she's this fake sunshiny and docile daughter, the next she's proposing Hades with a whole sex scheme to get back at Zeus. Speaking of which, I can't remember the number of tweets congratulating this book for the quality erotica and I guess I need something more than two half assed exhibitionism scenes and a cute safe-word to pass muster as D/s to wow me. I think the chemistry never truly sparked between Hades and Persephone for me so their few and many interactions between the sheets or on the throne failed to grab my interest. There just wasn't any heat between them. I can't believe I'm saying this but the sex was boring.I thought I'd love a anti hero but... sigh, Hades was just so sweet. TOO sweet. I like sweet, I do, but I would have liked some true grit given to his character and not just this shrouding misunderstood hero vibe. There wasn't any heat behind his threats either.The whole plot about Zeus war threats... dragged. His whole purposed as a villain was a complete loss on me, he was just not THERE. Not a real threat, never. I was not impressed with the rushed ending.For some reason this is tagged as fantasy/fantasy romance/fantasy paranormal, please explain. If you come looking for the greek mythology lore, you'll be sorely disappointed. The only "gods" in this story where the many implored by an orgasming Persephone. If you enjoy mafia romance though, this was very mafia romance lite.I didn't hate it but I didn't like it either. Everything was just too surface for me I guess, this wasn't a memorable read. Except maybe for the puppies. The puppies were adorb :) More reviews and book talk at : You can find me here too ☞