I received an ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Neon Gods is a contemporary romance retelling of Hades and Persephone. Olympus is a modern city that is ruled by the Thirteen and Zeus is the most powerful member of the Thirteen. When Demeter forces Persephone's betrothal to Zeus, Persephone escapes from the upper city of Olympus and crosses the River Styx to the lower city, where Hades rules. I finished this book with a thousand questions about the world building and character motivations.World BuildingIt sounds as if some members of the Thirteen are elected, whereas others are born into their role. The political structure of Olympus makes zero sense. It seems that Olympus is a city located in the United States of America. The reason I make this assumption is because Persephone mentioned she had plans to escape from Olympus to California. At the same time, Olympus seems to exist as a city outside of America. The world building is so vague. Where exactly does the City of Olympus fit in modern day America? What does the political structure look like? How does this city operate democratically when leaders are born into their roles? Is there a criminal justice system in place? Does the rule of law apply? It is hinted that Ares operates the military and police side of things, but once again, it is an assumption I am making. CharactersNeon Gods is marketed as a sunshine and grump romance, but I honestly did not see it that way. We are told that Hades is a grump, but he does not come across as a grump at all. Broody? Yes. Grumpy? No. Hades is a misunderstood hero who has built a fearsome reputation for himself. We are told Hades is intimidating and that he has a presence, but I didn't feel any of that. There is no danger or intrigue, which, in my opinion, kind of defeats the purpose of Hades. We are also told that Persephone has a sunshine disposition, which is a fake mask she wears in society. But we only get to see Persephone out in society for like 2 chapters, so we rarely see her as this "sunshiny" person. In my opinion, this version of Hades and Persephone just didn't fit their original mythological roles. Take out the one-dimensional mythology and you are left with a light mafiaeseque romance.The characters, especially the villains, have little to no depth. Why does Zeus hate Hades's parents so much? We never actually get an answer from Zeus, beyond his statement that Hades's father deserved to suffer. I was expecting a solid backstory to provide an explanation/motivation for Zeus's hatred toward Hades's parents. We are also told that Zeus is the most powerful member of the Thirteen. What exactly distinguishes him from the other members of the Thirteen? How did Zeus get powerful enough to get away with murder? How did Zeus get powerful enough to banish Hades from the rest of Olympus? Is there no rule of law in a city that is presumably located in America?Honestly, this book feels like a first draft. The world building is weak and has zero depth. The characters also leave a lot to be desired. The romance developed too quickly and the chemistry was lackluster. Neon Gods was very disappointing. I'm hoping the next book is better.