“Queens and kingsKings and queensBlue lily, lily blueCrowns and birdsSwords and thingsBlue lily, lily blue.” This review contains *spoilers*.And just like that, I'm finished.Now what?I’ve been reading this series back to back and it made me realize how much I’ve missed the joy (and sleep deprivation) marathoning books gives me.I already knew how dreadful I would feel once I finished Blue Lily, Lily Blue because I’m in love with these books, but I guess I didn’t prepare myself enough because I CAN’T believe I have to wait till April to find out what happens next. This series has affected me so much, I love love love the characters and the hilarious banter between all of them. They make me feel at home. And I already miss them. I had no idea going into this world that I would be so addicted to the writing style and the perfectly build up sequences—yet here I am writing this review in the middle of night because I can’t stop thinking about everything that went down in this book. This book is set shortly after the events of The Dream Thieves, Blue and the raven boys continue on with their quest to find Glendower, the Raven King.Maura is still underground in hopes to find Artemus and other mysterious things. And I really missed her in this story, I hadn’t realized what an impact she'd made on me.“But Maura was not some people. She had begun to dream the future when she was fourteen. She had spoken to her first spirit when she was sixteen. She had used remote viewing to see the other side of the world when she was nineteen. Time and space were bathtubs that Maura splashed in.”Blue terribly misses her mother, but she remains determined, strong, and compassionate. I loved her in this story.“After an extraordinary summer full of chasing kings and disappearing mothers, it was hard to really, truly picture herself going to class every day. What would any of this matter in two years? Nobody here would remember her, or vice versa. She would only remember that this was the fall her mother vanished. This was the year of Glendower.” Also, Blue and Gansey? I need more of them together.“Gansey was not sleeping.Because Blue had no cell phone, there was no way for him to break the rules and call her. Instead, he had begun to instead lie in his bed each night, eyes closed, hand resting on his phone, waiting to see if she was going to call him from the Phone/Sewing/Cat Room at her house.Stop it, he told himself. Stop wanting it —His phone buzzed.He put it to his ear.“You’re still not Congress, I see.”He was wide-awake.”Their night phone calls made me smile so much. And their late night outings even more so.“She turned to Gansey.“Blue,” he warned, but his voice was chaotic. This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, “I just want to pretend. I want to pretend that I could.”He breathed out.What was a kiss without a kiss?”So good and so heartbreaking.“Everything jumbled against everything else in just a few chaotic moments. Fingers in hair, hands cupping necks, mouths dragged on cheeks and chins in dangerous proximity.They stopped, noses mashed against each other in the strange way that closeness required. She could feel his breath in her mouth.“Maybe it wouldn’t hurt if I kiss you,” he whispered. “Maybe it’s only if you kiss me.”More of Gansay and Blue together, please. We got lovely little snippets of them together just so we could know how good it can be. But I really really really need more. Someone should get kissed in this series. Speaking of love, there wasn’t as much of Ronan as I would’ve liked but when he did show up—so good. I’m all starry-eyed.“I want you to whistle or hum or sing, Ronan, and keep track of time,” Gansey said.“You have got to be shitting me,” Ronan replied. “Me.”Gansey peered down the tunnel. “I know you know a lot of songs all the way through, and can do them the same speed and length every time. Because you had to memorize all of those tunes for the Irish music competitions.”My life will be made when I read more about Ronan’s music competitions. So cute.And Ronan and Adam’s interactions were so much fun to read, especially when you know that Ronan secretly has feelings for him.“Later, Adam walked out through the cool, damp night to his small, shitty car. As he sank into the driver’s seat, he found something already sitting on the seat.He retrieved the object and held it up under the feeble interior cab light. It was a small white plastic container. Adam twisted off the lid. Inside was a colorless lotion that smelled of mist and moss. Replacing the lid with a frown, he turned the container over, looking for more identifying features. On the bottom, Ronan’s handwriting labeled it merely: manibus. For your hands.”He’s so damn sweet and kind and marvelous.“As they moved through the old barn, Adam felt Ronan’s eyes glance off him and away, his disinterest practiced but incomplete. Adam wondered if anyone else noticed. Part of him wished they did and immediately felt bad, because it was vanity, really: See, Adam Parrish is wantable, worthy of a crush, not just by anyone, someone like Ronan, who could want Gansey or anyone else and chose Adam for his hungry eyes.Maybe he was wrong. He could be wrong.”So Adam knows? And does he not feel the same?I need answers. “You can be just friends with people, you know,” Orla said. “I think it’s crazy how you’re in love with all those raven boys.”Orla wasn’t wrong, of course. But what she didn’t realize about Blue and her boys was that they were all in love with one another. She was no less obsessed with them than they were with her, or one another, analyzing every conversation and gesture, drawing out every joke into a longer and longer running gag, spending each moment either with one another or thinking about when next they would be with one another. Blue was perfectly aware that it was possible to have a friendship that wasn’t all-encompassing, that wasn’t blinding, deafening, maddening, quickening. It was just that now that she’d had this kind, she didn’t want the other.”I feel just as close to all the raven boys (especially Ronan).Oh, and Robert Parrish visiting Adam was something I definitely wasn’t expecting, but when he showed up at Adam’s door- tears appeared so quickly in my eyes. I still haven’t forgotten that awful night at Adam’s old home.“He did not want to get hit.He would do what he needed to do to not get hit.”Damn, I thought Adam wouldn’t break my heart in this book, but I was so wrong. I was really trying to hold in the tears when he arrived at the courthouse alone. “Even if I lose, he thought weakly, he can’t have me back, so it won’t matter. It will only be this hour of humiliation and then it will be over.”But I was so relieved when the bailiff told the judge that there were some witnesses for the case. I felt like a huge weight had been lifted off of me.“The door cracked open. Adam didn’t want to look, but he did anyway.In the hall stood Richard Campbell Gansey III in his school uniform and overcoat and scarf and gloves, looking like someone from another world. Behind him was Ronan Lynch, his damn tie knotted right for once and his shirt tucked in.Humiliation and joy warred furiously inside Adam.Gansey strode between the pews as Adam’s father stared at him. He went directly to the bench, straight up to the judge. Now that he stood directly beside Adam, not looking at him, Adam could see that he was a little out of breath. Ronan, behind him, was as well. They had run. For him.”And so much happened towards the end, I’m still trying to wrap my mind it.Especially around the fact that Persephone died. “We’ll get her back,” Adam said.But Calla was already crying.Blue, unconcerned with dignity, dragged Persephone out by her armpits. She was light and unresisting.They would pull her back, just as Adam said.Calla sank to her knees and covered her face.“Stop it,” snapped Blue, voice cracking. “Get over here and help.”She took Persephone’s hand. It was as cold as the cave walls.”When Calla started crying, I knew something was terribly wrong.Calla cries— I cry even harder.“Look, I told Calla we were going into the cave. To find Maura.” He corrected, more formally, “Your mother.”“Oh, seriously! Don’t Richard Gansey on me!” Blue snapped, and then, at once, she began to cry.It was against the rules, but Gansey crouched down beside her, one of his knees against her back, one against her knees, and hugged her. She curled against him, hands balled up against his chest. He felt a hot tear slip into the dip of his collarbone. He closed his eyes against the sun through the window, burning hot in his sweater, foot falling asleep, elbow grinding into the metal bed frame, Blue Sargent pressed up against him, and he didn’t move.”I love them.Their journey into to the cave had me literally on the edge of my seat. I felt like I was holding my breath for those last few pages.And when Ronan and Blue saw the lake, I really thought that Maura was gone. This book is seriously destroying me.“It’s not real,” Ronan told her, voice low. “It’s not real, Blue.”“I saw her,” Blue said, and she heard the sob in her voice. “My mother.”He said, “I know. I saw my father.”“But she was there —”“My father’s dead in the ground. And Adam saw your mother farther on in this godforsaken cave. That lake is a lie.”“For a moment they remained that way, Ronan holding her as tightly as he would hold his brother Matthew, his cheek on her shoulder. Every time she thought she could go on, she saw the face of her mother’s corpse again.Finally, she pulled back, and Ronan stood up. He looked away, but not before she saw the tear he flicked from his chin.“Fuck this,” he said again.”I could not handle it when Ronan shed a tear. I love him so much and he doesn’t deserve so much pain. They don’t deserve so much pain.I love them all so, so much and I could talk about them for hours (thanks Mom for listening).I seriously cannot recommend this book enough. I didn’t so much visit this world as get absorbed. I loved itThere wasn't a single moment where I felt bored or lost interest. The story flows so easily.It’s also really painful coming to realize that I won’t know what will happen until April. I can’t let go of the wonderful characters just yet, so I’ll probably read all the really cute scenes over and over.Oh, and I finally found the incredible fanart that got me interested in The Raven Boys.Adam Parrish  Richard Campbell Gansey IIISourceI also loved listening to this song because my heart was definitely breaking while reading this book.*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying Blue Lily, Lily Blue, just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!*This review and more can be found on my blog.