me when someone I know hates on Adam Parrish:Okay, so this was a fantastic middle book. Blue Lily Lily Blue is a totally different beast than the Dream Thieves, but it's so good. Even thinking about this book makes me... so happy. I think what's funny about this series is I keep having problems with it but I'm okay with it - these books are as messy as life, as fucked up and emotionally charged and full of errors that won't ever be resolved. As I've said in my reviews for The Raven Boys, The Dream Thieves, Blue Lily, Lily Blue, and The Raven King, I love all of these characters so much, on a level of my soul that most fictional characters do not touch. Because these books are genuinely magic.→why am I bitter?←I will be very honest and say I think these books deserve praise for characters, not plot. The plot of Blue Lily, Lily Blue, specifically was... eh? What happened in this book? Because I'm genuinely not sure I know. And yeah, some of that is Maggie's trademark style. But there wasn't not much tension because I never knew what the fuck was happening. Confusing, magical-realism-esque plot is Maggie's trademark. Apparently. I will also say that Ronan never narrated chapters, and that really did sadden me, because he has such a distinct narrative style from Gansey and Adam and Blue! Sad. Also, Blue and Gansey still aren't progressing as characters. Give them the character development they deserve.→why am I in love?←So first of all, adorable scenes with the #squad always get me going. I especially loved the courtroom scene. I want a friend group like the raven squad. Without the dead Welsh kings and excess testosterone, maybe.In general, I think this book is one of the best in the series for all the relationships. There is so much fantastic relationship building in this book. Blue and Gansey's relationship makes me more emotional by the minute. I care about Gansey and Adam's vaguely gay friendship so much. I am physically hurt inside by Ronan and Blue being bros.And I like to die!Ronan knew Adam, but Adam wasn't sure he knew Ronan at all.Also, side note, I stand by every update I made about this book.→why am I dead inside?←Uh, um, so there’s a character in this book that - literally - has my personality. So I want to talk about that. Why did he care if Gansey and Ronan saw this? They already knew. They knew everything about him. What a lie unknowable was. The only person who didn't know Adam was himself.There’s this thing this character does, where he is one of the most Outwardly Stable members of his friend group, and he is also going through so much and probably hasn’t slept since 1920, and yet he still manages to come off as a very pragmatic rational person. most of the time. but his internal monologue around himself just fucking drips with emotional tiredness and, below that, this sense of self-loathing. he compartmentalizes his feelings and also lets himself break down. there’s a scene in the third book of this series where he’s interacting with someone in his life who hurt him, so much, and he responds to it by completely dissociating for a full chapter and it read like my inner monologue in that. exact. situation.Oh, and he has my flaws. so that’s really fun! I love confessionals. he is… incredibly aware of his own flaws and yet completely unwilling to admit flaws, because he is so used to people turning around and throwing them right back in his face. that’s me. he is completely incapable of receiving gifts because he knows that at any moment, they can be thrown back in his face, with him as the ungrateful one. that’s me. and he worries, all the time, both subtly and unsubtly, that he is a danger to others, and he is on the verge of becoming his parents. his entire character arc is based around him realizing he isn’t. and that was so fucking painful and so fucking relatable and I don’t know how to handle it.His constant self-awareness, his self destructive ambition, his confidence contrasting with his self-doubt. every chapter he narrates felt like someone had come into my home and stolen my obscure thought processes and I hate it and I am so. invested. in it.I might lose my mind thinking about this. I love this seriesBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube