This was the last book in the six-book Codex Alera series. This was a really good epic fantasy series, and I’m glad I read it. It was consistently well-written, with characters I cared a lot about, and an interesting story.I do think I started to experience some “battle fatigue” by this last book. The whole series has quite a lot of action and it’s written well, focusing on the characters so that it stays interesting and doesn’t get repetitive. However, by this book I more or less knew how everything was going to end up and I was just ready to get the last climactic battle over with. It seemed to go on forever. This is probably partly because my work schedule really slowed my reading down, so it seemed to go on forever because it took me (almost) forever to finish the book.It was still a very good story, and I was mostly happy with how everything wrapped up. I would have preferred though for the main action to end sooner and for there to have been more pages focused on the aftermath. I also rolled my eyes a bit at the end where we see the happily married or soon-to-be-married couples from the series with all their children, babies, and fat bellies. Very cliché. I thought I’d accidentally taken a wrong page turn into the ending of a romance book or something. There’s a decent section toward the end in which we learn about future plans, and that part made me happy, but I would have liked something more substantial. I also would have liked some last moments with some of the other recurring characters we didn’t see again near the end.As I’ve said in previous reviews, this isn’t the twistiest of stories, but it’s never so predictable as to be boring. It’s good fun with great characters, funny banter, and other occasional humor. It was a satisfying epic fantasy series within a reasonable six-book series size. There’s definitely room for more stories, but I would worry that the next obvious direction the story would take would be too repetitive with what has already been written, so I think I’m glad it ended here. Although I know it’s a very different sort of a series, I’m now more interested in trying the author’s Dresden Files at some point to see if his writing works for me there, too.