**possible spoilers**After Princeps' Fury I thought I might be experiencing a bit of series overkill since I was reading the books back to back in a matter of weeks. I was starting to be disappointed in the characters and the movement of the plot, so I decided to step away for a few months hoping that I would return refreshed and ready to finish the series. But I discovered it wasn’t me after all. It was the VORD. I don’t like them. Ever since they invaded Alera my enjoyment dwindled. I’m not a huge fan of killer insects for one, but that really wasn’t the problem. What most 
bugged
 (hehe) me about them was that, besides the Queen who guides them, they lack personality. They’re like adaptable, powerful, numerous robots. They just kept attacking, kept getting killed and kept multiplying. I felt like I was reading so many long battle scenes, where these creatures were being crushed by the thousands only to return in greater numbers with no hope of an end in sight. There was no triumph and no glory - just stab, crush, sweep, repeat. It all seemed very repetitive. I had some other minor problems with this series, in general, that only seemed to be more obvious in this final book. First, no one ever really dies. To be honest, I don’t like when an author kills off main characters, but I also don’t like when characters who should clearly be dead don’t die. In this case, Furycrafting saved so many people from deadly wounds I never had to worry that anyone would die. Of course, I don’t WANT them to die, but there’s no suspense in knowing that they’ll be healed no matter how close to death they are. And it seemed that every main character was close to death at least once. :/ Araris, who was a favorite of mine, was pretty much out of commission for most of this book. He had so much potential from the start of this series to be someone awesome, and for a time he was, but towards the end he kind of lost that awesomeness. Even after he displayed his new talent, it just wasn’t as exciting as it should have been. It was almost ridiculous. Or maybe I was just taxed by that point and couldn’t appreciate it. Also, this book was missing some of the emotional depth and humor that made the other books great. There were a few instances when we see Kitai showing a softer side, the several couples in the story sharing brief intimate moments, or the Canim reminding the Aleran of their fragile alliance, but for the most part it just wasn’t there. There were a few funny lines in the beginning but as things got more serious so did the characters – expected I guess. A lot of time is spent on getting in position, planning tactics, fighting off the enemy and planning the next defensive position or plan of attack. I love battles and tactics, but I love seeing the emotional and lighter side of my characters too. 

…I have been changed…I do not function in the manner which their instincts tell them I should.

I know I kind of picked this one apart, but there were still things that I really enjoyed. The Vord Queen became even more curious this time around, adapting, and forming a different mindset that I thought was very interesting. At first, I couldn’t quite figure out if she was trying to manipulate her captives, find a weakness or if she really was changing, but it gave her a personality and something close to emotions. She analyzed and questioned the people’s daily habits looking for strengths, which in turn began to develop some interesting internal conflicts for her. Tavi, clever as usual, really developed into a great leader, though I still couldn’t help but see him as the young boy from the steadholt. I actually found myself liking Isana again. I like her better when she’s put in tight spaces and forced to use her emotional connections to affect her circumstances rather than her authority or watercrafting. The Canim have been, and always will be, my favorites of the series. I love that they have a strict sense of honor and duty that they extend to their most respected enemies, as long as they stay within the strict lines drawn for them, of course.One of the biggest reasons I had to finish this last book was to find out about the revelation at the end of Princep’s Fury. I can’t say I was thoroughly satisfied with how things went down in this book, but a little more light was shed of the furies themselves. So this wasn’t all I had hoped, but it wasn’t a huge disappointment. I enjoyed it for the most part, but this is not a series at the top of my recommendation list - based on the last two books