Told in 3rd person POV from several perspectives, the dialogue is sound, and sometimes humorous. I chuckled several times. Yes, a fun series ends here, with some unfinished business but on a feel-good footing. I'd read another continuing novel. It's clear that Butcher had a good sense of where his series was going from the beginning. Many events and characters from book 1 come full circle here in book 6. Having read all six books, I'd classify this series as fantasy light, although there is apocalyptic death and destruction, grim murder, rape, slavery, treachery, betrayal, mind control, and zombie-like creatures. However, the good wins out, the fellowship holds hard to one another with a prevailing feeling of esprit de corps, camaraderie, romance, and redemption. I tagged this series as alternative history, with a fantastical bent. There are many parallels to historical Rome: the rights of the Roman / Aleran citizen, enslavement, siege weapons, shield walls (aka Hadrian's Wall), crucifixion, legionaries and centurions, emperors (Gaius), and high lords and senators, "juris macto" dueling, etc. And there is the Aleran Empire, where "all roads lead to Rome" (aka Alera Imperia). I read and listenend, alternating between the two formats. As usual, Kate Reading brought the story to vivid life. However, infernal blaring trumpet fanfare occurred repeatedly throughout the audiobooks, diminishing the audio experience. There's a good map of Carna, showing the Realm of Alera, the Land of Canea, the Land of the Marat, and the Land of the Icemen. It's all over the web, and at Butcher's website. One problem is the map of Calderon Valley. Ratio / scale is off, according to Tavi's description of miles between places, in ch 49 of First Lord's Fury.Some quibbles. I wish Butcher had allocated fewer pages to battles and more to the aftermath. The main story abruptly ended after several lengthy battle scenes, portrayed from several viewpoints. The epilogue felt like a reporting of events, and some of Tavi's political decisions are debatable, or at least felt precipitous. Contents are clean, with no swearing except "bloody crows" and no overt sex (but it's implied, and once or twice a bit more than implied). A flaw in the writing: The characterization of Fidelius is problematic for me. Spoilers below!!!!Butcher successfully portrayed Fidelius as a total fiend in book 1. I cannot buy into anything else.  Fidelius / Marcus is a certain traitor. He's a cold-blooded killer, a treacherous kid-killing, cursor-killing, legionaire-slaying slive (see book 1). Furthermore, this traitor backed Invidia, making him a pathetically poor judge of character. Furthermore, Isana would see through his disguise, as she immediately did with Rook, little Masha's mother.  I wouldn't trust him, and Butcher did not convince me otherwise. About a dozen characters play key roles, showing up in each book across the series. Butcher focused largely — and successfully — on the hero's character development, from harmless but highly intelligent shepherd boy to unforeseen savior of the realm. In book one, Tavi is 15 years old. In this book, he's about 24, I'd say. Writing style is fun to read but sometime not as strong as it could be. I grew weary of "wolfish grins" and "arched eyebrows" and repeated references to "the burned woman" (why not use her name?). Also, eating the croach?? Cannibalistic. Use it for fertilizer, or to feed the omnivorous livestock. Sharing the fury wealth? Hmmm...For me, there's a bit too much introspection and internal moralizing. Scenes hop from one place to another, often at cliffhanger moments, and characters pause the action (and slow the pace) to mentally philosophize about the morality of their actions, especially regarding war and the painful necessity to kill in self-defense. These ethical convictions became transparent, repetitive, and not particularly interesting, since they are predictable, and commonly found in fantasy novels. Still, I loved this series, especially book 3, Cursor's Fury.