I finished all six volumes in Jim Butcher’s Codex Alera series, so I’m writing one review to cover the whole set. Regardless of which of the books this review is attached to, if you want to read this epic saga, start with the first book: 
Furies of Calderon
. I’ve also read all fourteen of the full-length books in his 
Dresden Files
, and there are some interesting points of comparison.First and foremost, this is a well-crafted and engrossing tale — definitely worth reading.The tale follows the life of young Tavi of the backwater province of Calderon over the course of several years, as his world is riven by existential threats and as he grows up and plays a larger and larger role. There really isn’t anything fundamentally innovative here — most of the elements of the plot are echoed in other epic fantasies. The system of magic plays a large role and is well thought-out, but while it is fresh, it isn’t radical. What makes Codex Alera an excellent addition to the fantasy shelf is in the story and its telling. The characters are engaging and adequately complex, the plot starts well and grows satisfyingly convoluted, and there is plenty of action to drive things forward.Because the story begins when Tavi is still only fifteen, the first volume is weaker than the sequels. His relationships and option for acting aren’t as complex as they soon become, and his circle of acquaintances is also more limited. Starting with the second book, the scope of story broadens dramatically, with a wider range of characters getting in-depth treatment. Eventually, Butcher brings a small measure of romance into the mix, with even a little non-puritanical treatment of sex. Considering how poorly these last topics are dealt with in the Dresden Files, that’s a nice change.Fans of the Dresden Files will still find some aspects of the tone and style very familiar. Since the new series is set in a completely fictional world (as opposed to contemporary Chicago), the ironic sarcasm is toned down dramatically, but there is still plenty around. All the clever characters still banter and tease, especially in times of mortal peril. This isn’t exactly a rare device in genre fiction (and probably anachronistic here, given the period is a rough approximation of feudalism, to the extent that can apply to fantasy), but Butcher does it pretty well.Codex Alera is a more mature effort, though. The earlier series is locked into a first-person narrative, for example, which means the voice of a single character is loud, flaws and all. Here, instead, there are several point-of-view characters, although unfortunately Butcher only lets us hear the thoughts of his protagonists. As limiting as that still is, there is more psychological depth. A major theme that grows more pressing through the series is the inevitable compromises a leader must make between opposing values, and how horrifying it is to be required to make decisions whose outcomes are all nauseating. Because the various viewpoint characters are at differing points in their understanding of this “dirty hands” dynamic, Butcher can simultaneously illuminate a ruler’s imperative for pragmatism as well as the revulsion towards apparent amorality felt by those not confronted with the need for decisive action.Unfortunately, there is also still a bit too much untimely introspection and moralising. The multiple viewpoints ameliorate this a bit, but we’re still treated to characters pausing in the middle of a tense situation (a battle scene, for example, or a political debate) and expounding on their personal convictions — which aren’t particularly interesting, since they are fairly predictable. This is another aspect that makes the first book weaker — because Tavi is still growing emotionally, there are too many opportunities for the author to indulge himself with the self-righteous attitudes of adolescence.Butcher has a long way to go before he can honestly portray real nuance in personality types. Judging by both series, I’d bet that he’s what I’ll call a “heartland liberal”. His heroes are socially progressive multiculturalists, without much tolerance for faiths or creeds that require uncritical obedience. Religions are frequently portrayed benevolently, but religious leaders seem to be corrupt even more often than other powerful characters. Butcher portrays political and military institutions in a somewhat more favorable light. While both have plenty of power-hungry and venal characters, he depicts kings and generals as responsible people struggling to do the right thing.Where the nuance is missing is in a genuinely sympathetic portrayal of those that don’t fit his morality. For example, late in the series there is a conflict between the secular leaders of a military group and its religious leadership. The flaws of the latter group are quite plausible, but make things morally simplistic. Instead of having two groups both of which are honestly striving to do the right thing, one of the two has already made choices that signify their corruption. Even though Butcher doesn’t fall into the common trap of casting the whole story into a good-versus-evil conflict (a la Sauron of Mordor, or the Dark Side of the Force, or the Death Eaters, et cetera ad nauseum), he still relies on evil at the individual level. The good might be complex, but his villains really aren’t.Granted, that’s asking a lot. The much more experienced George R. R. Martin has humanized a few of his villains in his Song of Ice and Fire series, but he generally still makes it hard to like them. Martin’s real strength is that he makes it harder to actually decide who is a villain. Butcher’s stories are still morally unambiguous, even with his gradually growing skill at giving us characters that struggle with their choices in increasingly realistic ways.Oh, by the way: this might help. There was, frustratingly, no map in the editions I read until the final volume. But Butcher’s website provides this one (click through to a larger version):



The first book in the series was the fantasy selection for the Goodreads SciFi and Fantasy Book Club for the month of July 2010. Visit this link to see all of the discussions, group member reviews, etc.­