Beautiful Darkness (Caster Chronicles, #2), Kami Garcia, Margaret StohlBeautiful Darkness is a young-adult fantasy novel written by Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl. The second novel in the Caster Chronicles, it was published by Little, Brown on October 12, 2010.Beautiful Darkness is the sequel to the Caster Saga. The story begins with the tragic death of Macon Ravenwood, Lena's beloved uncle. Through telepathic communication, Lena tells Ethan she wants to skip the funeral. Ethan is skeptical about Macon's choice for burial, the town cemetery of which he doesn't have any real love for the town, Gatlin. Macon was an incubus who chose to feed on dreams rather than human blood. Several incubuses attended his funeral most of which Ethan had never known or seen before the funeral. A caster boy gives Lena a silver sparrow before he himself had to depart. After the funeral, Lena falls into a deep depression and refused to leave the house, Ravenwood Manor. Ethan has been hearing the song “Seventeen Moons” playing on the radio in his car and on his iPod and tries to tell Lena about it. Lena had used the Book of Moons to bring Ethan back to life in the previous book, Beautiful Creatures. Lena shuts Ethan out and refuses to discuss things with him. Lena worries that even though she avoided having to choose what she will claim, light or dark on her sixteenth birthday, she thinks that someday soon she will whether she's ready for it or not. Ethan attempts to cheer Lena up through their secret telepathic abilities, that is until Lena's grandmother Delphine insist that Lena returns to school. Initially, this seems to make Lena feel better, normal in a sense. ...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هجدهم ماه فوریه سال 2016میلادیعنوان: تاریکی زیبا: کتاب دوم از سری تاریخ نگاری (حماسه) کستر؛ نویسندگان: کامی گارسیا؛ مارگارت استول؛کتاب «تاریکی زیبا» دومین کتاب از سری «حماسه ی کستر» است؛ داستان «ایتان ویت»، پسر نوجوان ساکن شهری کوچک به نام «گتلین»، را دنبال میکند.؛ او شیفته ی «لنا دوکنز»، دختری با جادوی توانمند، است؛ «لنا» تاکنون توانسته است که از انتخاب بین روشنایی و تاریکی سر باز زند؛ با این وجود، این بدین معنا نیست که او میتواند تا ابد آزاد زندگی کند…؛ داستان با مرگ غم انگیز «ماکون راونوود»، دایی محبوب «لنا» آغاز میشود؛ «لنا» از راه ارتباط تله پاتیک، به «ایتان» میگوید، که میخواهد مراسم تشییع جنازه ای در کار نباشد.؛ و ...؛ تاریخ بهنگام رسانی 24/08/1399هجری خورشیدی؛ ا. شربیانی