I try to express only my most honest opinion in a spoiler free way. If you feel anything in my review is a spoiler and is not already hidden in spoiler brackets please let me know. Thank you.So right off the bat I wasn't really wanting to read this one. I choose to due to a challenge in my group. I had hoped that once I started I would lose myself in the world of the book. I did some what, but not like I was hoping. Through a combination of reading and listening I managed to get through it. For whatever reason though I just didn't like this one as much as the first. I gotta say that in my opinion, Lena acted badly. She handled the whole thing badly and made a bad situation worse. I like Ethan as he is loyal to Lena, but overly loyal if you ask me and a part of me thinks that he would be better off moving on. Link is super loyal. Not only to his best friend but also to Ridley who has done nothing to earn his loyalty. Speaking of Ridley, I actually like her a lot. She a complex character and that catches my attention. It will be interesting to see how she turns out by the end of the book. And finally Liv. I honestly don't know how I feel about Liv other than pity. She got the crap end of the stick in more than one way.There were a few things I saw coming, and one thing I was wrong about. Over the plot was ok. Its got everything I expect from a YA book. Which is probably why I feel there are a lot of similarities to other popular YA series. The romance in the series doesnt really hold me ones from similar series do. It just doesn't have that great chemistry that gets my heart pumping.I love all the food mentions though. I love food, and I love cooking. Many of these dishes I never even heard of. Now I want to start looking them up and try out a few new dishes. I'm from up north so thats probably part of the reason I never heard of some of these dishes. All in all I'll probably continue the series. I hope this was a case of 'second book slump' and not a beginning to the series decline, but I guess I'll find out. How I choose my rating:1* Hated it. Had to force myself to finish it.2** Didn't really like it. Didn't hate it but not sure why I finished it other then for some closure.3*** I liked it. I had some issues with it, but as a whole it was good. I probably won't reread again ever, but there is a chance I might finish the series. (If part of one) But if not it's not a huge loss.4**** I really liked this book. Maybe not a work of genius, but highly entertaining. I might reread this again, and I will finish the series. (If part of one) I would recommend to those I know hold interest in this books content.5***** I loved this book. I found little to no issues with it at all. I will definitely be rereading this and probably more than once. I will finish the series and reread it multiple times. (If part of one) I will recommend this book to EVERYONE!!!!