I expected to like this book the same way you like to watch baking shows or cat videos on Youtube. That said, I didn't expect to love it as much as I did. White Cat was absolutely mind-blowing. 5 stars was the only possible way I could rate it because honestly?, I have nothing to complain about (which I know, is so unlike me, but here we are). It took me literally five hours to finish the book, because it was completely impossible for me to put it down. Everything about it was exactly as I wanted it.I think that one of the reasons for which I connected so strongly with this book is that I could see myself in the MC, Cassel. I know that's probably not the best reason, but he usually did things as I would have, and his mind wasn't so different from mine. This is a book about a charming liar: someone who can flash a smile, say the right words at the right time and fool you while you don't even understand what's happening. But Cassel is not only an excellent actor, he's also human and vulnerable, and I could feel his very own emotions as if I were the one experiencing them - his guilt, his regret, but also his fury. He isn't the kind of person that just waits for things to happen, but he was the one moving the plot forward, and I liked that he was smart, but not unbelievably so. He was very intuitive, but there were still times when he had no idea what was going on, and I liked that. The writing was very good. It wasn't particularly flowery, but I enjoyed it nonetheless, and I think this series has the potential to be a new favorite of mine. I like mysteries and I like magic, and the book was slightly creepy at times, which is always a plus. Also, I'm well known to have a weakness for books that explore family dynamics, especially when they're about difficult sibling relationships.And, well, this book has organized crime in it. I know what you're thinking: so what? But, guys. Martin Scorsese is my favorite director. I know every line of Goodfellas by heart, and I think The Departed is a masterpiece. So yeah, crime families are definitely my kind of thing.I'm going to stop right here, because this review is honestly just me fangirling like crazy over this wonderful book. But I honestly can't wait to get my hands on the second one!White Cat is one of the best books I've read this year, probably one of the best books I've read period. I read it on my Kindle because I'm lazy and didn't have a lot of money to spend, but I think I'm going to get the physical copy of it as well, so that I can place it on my shelf and sigh contentedly whenever I pass by it.