Have you ever gone into a book fully expecting it to be a new favourite, but slowly, as you're actually reading it, a slow sense of terrible dread begins to creep over you as you start to realise that...you're not actually enjoying it?It's like if you were arranging to meet up with somebody that you thought was a beloved old friend, and you have this lightness in your heart at the exciting thought of seeing them. But then, as you're approaching the meeting place, the figure waiting for you looks too tall to be your friend. They have the wrong dimensions. You inch a little closer and you realise you don't recognise that face. Then it's too late for you as you realise that the person you arranged you meet up with is not your friend at all but is a deranged murderer plotting to kill you, and they've got their knife out.Okay… Maybe I went a little too overboard with that analogy. But that was how betrayed I felt by this book. Every time I saw it on my tbr, I could practically hear it whispering to me, "go on, buy me, you'll fall in love with me.” It lied to me. Or maybe I just lied to myself.I hate giving books negative reviews. I hate it because far more often than not, the author put months, often even years, of work into their novel. They poured pieces of themself into it; pieces of their heart and soul and life and mind. Meanwhile, I put a couple hours worth of passive reading in, and I have the audacity to sit back and say it's bad? To say it's not worth the countless hours and tears and love the author dedicated to it? Who am I, to judge what's worth 1 star and what's worth 5? I follow Roshani Chokshi on social media, and I've watched her journey with this book. I've seen firsthand how much she loves it and how much she loves her characters, and I am in no way trying to discredit that love. One day I hope to love something I've written as much as she loves this book.But I still didn't like it. Why didn't I?Well, let's get into it.*The Characters*The thing is, on the surface level, these characters are great. It's an incredibly diverse cast: we've got a half-French half-Algerian character, an Indian character, a Polish Jewish neurodivergent character, a half-Spanish half-Filipino character and a black half-Haitian character. I'm so happy the characters are so diverse - we need more YA books with this kind of representation. Unfortunately, their diversity may just be the only good thing going for them.These characters wear pretty dresses and expensive suits. They drink champagne and talk about history and mathematics and plan elaborate heists under the noses of people much older and wealthier than they are. They've got personal vendettas and tragic pasts and engage in witty banter. Doesn't it seem like these are the exact ingredients for a character-recipe of epic, wondrous proportions? Shouldn't this be a cast of characters I fall immediately and intimately in love with?Unfortunately, it's all just gilded dressing. These characters fool you into thinking they're interesting. When you really get down into it, into the hearts of these characters, they reveal themselves to be unfinished and underdeveloped and their relationships (especially the romantic ones) come off incredibly incomplete and immature.For example, why on earth did Séverin and Laila like each other? What was this 'pull towards each other' the both of them felt every single fucking time they breathed the same air as one other? These two characters supposedly have a pre-existing history, in which they spent a night together (which is so vaguely hinted about that it could have been anything from a light makeout session to wild night-long rabbit sex) but decided afterwards that they couldn't be together and shouldn't do it again because... Reasons. What are these reasons? Why on earth are they denying themselves something they both so clearly desperately want? It's something vague about 'wanting to focus on their goals and not be distracted’ but I smell bullshit. It all feels very contrived and very much a case of angst for the sake of angst. And unfortunately, because they already have a pre-existing history, we're never treated to the story of how they started to like each other in the first place. I'm supposed to accept that these two characters are in love with each other - I'm consistently told this from the first page until the very last. But that's the key thing - I am told, when I want to be shown. I want to see what they like about each other, and I want to witness what drew them together in the first place. Without those key elements, it just feels forced. It’s like going into the cinema only to find that the movie’s already halfway through and you’ve missed the entire first act.The other characters weren’t a whole lot better. Enrique is the intellectual historian, but every time he was talking about history it literally just felt like a clunky passage copy-pasted from Wikipedia. A similar problem happened with Zofia - when she was explaining something, it read like a jumble of mathematical jargon vomited out of a computer and slathered across the page. And don’t get me started on the hints of romance there - it was completely and utterly unnecessary.Zofia is Jewish, but I wouldn’t have known that at all if I hadn’t been expressly told she was Jewish. She barely ever mentions her faith, and from what I could tell from the text she doesn’t even practise it. I’m pretty sure the word ‘synagogue’ wasn’t even printed on the page once. I don’t want to cry ‘diversity points’ but...well. Writing a Jewish character means more than just saying they’re Jewish and being done with it. Maybe Chokshi wanted to avoid stereotypes, but your Jewish character going to synagogue isn't a stereotype.I still don’t really have a feel for who any of these people are. If you asked me what kind of person Laila is, I would have no idea what to tell you. She bakes and dances?? That’s it?? Enrique is a historian - okay but what else? Why is Tristan so childlike? Why does Séverin constantly flip-flop between cold prick and protective nice guy? Who are these people? Why are they even friends?Hypnos was probably the best character, but there wasn’t enough of him. He’s basically an eccentric rich boy so desperate for friends that he’s willing to blackmail them into working with him - which is something I am incredibly here for. But again, there wasn’t enough of him.Chokshi gives her characters various quirks and idiosyncrasies - a clove-eating habit, a passion for giant spiders, a baking talent, pyromaniac tendencies - but again, it just felt like pretty decorations on a bland sponge-cake. A quirky habit doesn’t equate to a personality. It’s all very well and good giving a character a pet tarantula, but if you don’t tell me who the character is, what makes them tick and why they act the way that they do, I’m just going to start hating that fucking tarantula and everything it stands for.I think part of the problem comes from the fact that these characters are already friends by the time of the novel’s outset, but I never got a sense that these are people who have known each other for a long time. We’re treated to very little information about how they became such a close-knit friendship group - yeah, they all work for Séverin, but that doesn’t explain why they are friends. The reason why the ‘previously-established friendship group’ works in books like Six of Crows is because we get a lot of backstory on all the relationships, and the characters are familiar with one another in a way that shows you they have known each other a long time. But in this book, it feels like the characters barely know each other, barely even like each other.Okay, since I’ve talked way too much about the characters, let’s move on to…*The Plot**Long, beleaguered sigh*Where do I even get started? I have no idea. If somebody asked me what the plot of this book is, I wouldn't be able to tell them. It’s so convoluted, so half-baked that I was utterly lost for 75% of the time. The writing style has this very odd way of elaborately and beautifully describing all the unnecessary details, while leaving out the actually important ones. There were so many confusing descriptions and misleading elements that I felt like I was being jerked around on the world’s rockiest rollercoaster. And not the good kind of rollercoaster that makes your heart leap. The kind of rollercoaster that makes you vomit in your mouth.The worldbuilding was incredibly vague. We’ve got this ‘magical’ element, called Forging, but it’s never explained how this process actually works or what it looks like in action. Early on it’s stated that Forging only ecompasses the realm of mind and matter, but then later in the story it’s revealed that someone who Forges can have the ability to literally fucking create life! What are the realms and boundaries of this power? What actually even is it? Who knows!How do the mnemo bugs work? Because that was like some sci-fi shit. Holograms and recording devices? This is supposed to be 19th Century France!That was another thing - for a book set in 1889, the characters certainly don’t act like they’re from this period. They speak and act like they’re from the 21st Century. In fact, I kept actually forgetting that this was supposed to be historical fiction.*Overall Thoughts*This book was going to be my next favourite. Unfortunately I just grew more and more frustrated the further I ventured into the story. Will I read the next book? It’s not looking likely, but I’m not entirely ruling it out. I just hope the romance is less forced, bland and shoved down my throat, and that the worldbuilding is more cohesively thought through.