~ 3.5 stars~Can't say it necessarily fully lived up to my expectations, but I did have an overall good time.~ here are the things that stopped me from rating it higher ~• It took way too long for me to get into it. When I was reading it, I was really interested and immersed, but when I wasn't, I forgot that I even needed to finish it. Kind of a weird phenomenon, that I'm not quite sure of the reason for. • The entire time I felt a certain confusion especially regarding the world-building, and where the story was going. I felt like this story was trying to be a lot of things at once, and it was just a big jumble. I feel like I'm missing some information. The Order organization logistics was not clear cut. I don't really know the propose it really serves. The plot is just very meh for me. While the premise intrigues me, the way it played out, and in general, it's not very digestible unfortunately and made me feel dumb.• The villian? Can we even call him that? He was there for such little of time, and felt irrelevant, only adding further complexities. His motives were shallow, and he wasn't developed. Also his name... I think the J and the R should be switched if you ask me, I don't know why I felt the need to point that out, but his name annoyed me. His whole thing felt so...boring. Perhaps I had too high expectations? As much as I liked it, I expected to LOVE it, not just like it. ~ the things I liked ~ • The setting was really cool. I liked the feel of it and the history. Same with the time period. Not much else to say.• It was enjoyable. I had fun reading it, for what it's worth despite my confusion. • The premise of this book. I'm still curious to see where it may go. It sets up well for the next book, that I'm trying my best to resist the urge to start it and just toss my TBR for the remaining of the year out the window.• The characters: This was the biggest positive, and while I usually don't like books were the plot doesn't work for me, but the characters are so lovable, and vice versa, as I typically like a good balance, this book, if it did one thing right, it was the characters.I love them all, but I think my favorite was a tie between Enrique and Zofia. But let's not talk about the ending because my heart gets too heavy just thinking about it. Just know that I will be suing for emotional damage. I would, humbly say, that I would die for them all. Yes they are all fictional, but what about it? It took a while for me to warm up to Hypnos, but his dynamic with the others, and his vibe was hilarious, and I think I could potentially love him too in the next book.Séverin and Laila, I really like them too, but I wasn't as drawn to them as the three others. Laila much more than Séverin, as I just like with her personality more. But the entire time they were pining after each other, and it was just kind of annoying... sorry? The characters as a whole, their bonds and relationships with each other, how they have found a family in each other, their dynamic with one another, etc. etc. are phenomenal.• It had great representation and diversity. It took a moment to address the struggles of each of these characters and their identities. I really appreciate that.Final Thoughts: To summarize, while I loved certain aspects, there were others that I didn't. This book isn't a favorite, and not quite a 4 star read. But I am looking forward to The Silvered Serpents and I just know, that I'm probably going to like that one even more. There is only one way to go, which is up (at least I desperately hope so) and I am optimistic.