Apparently, this is the first in a TRILOGY! YAY!I really loved this! (Even though the ending broke me!)This book was pretty confusing at times, in regards to the world building, but the character development, and their relationships with one another, were where the book truly shined. My absolute favourite characters were Zofia, Hypnos, and Tristan...which definitely attributed to me not enjoying the ending (and you know what I’m referring to, if you’ve read it). Honestly, for all the Six of Crows-esque marketing, this book had very little in common with it. If anything, it was more Indiana Jones meets the DaVinci Code. The heists were more intricate here and there was nonstop action, enthralling me as I turned page after page. Also, there were puzzles and maths! While Leigh Bardugo’s Six of Crows builds up to the heist as the story progresses, this was a series of different ones, which definitely made for a more interesting read, in my opinion. It kept bringing me back for more, even though I took a lifetime to read it!I felt like some of the diverse representation was even...gratuitous, at times. While I appreciated it’s inclusion, it came across more as a variety of character tropes, rather than giving us important context as to their backgrounds. Laila is the only who seemed to be truly defined by her Indian background. The one I was most excited for, Zofia, a Jew, was ultimately disappointing because I would never have known she was Jewish if it had not been explicitly stated multiple times. Naomi Novik’s Spinning Silver provides much better representation in that aspect because being Jewish was actually a big part of who she was as a person. Here, it seemed to be more of an additional character trait, simply included to develop her backstory. Zofia never once referenced her actual faith, just the prejudice she was subjected to from her former classmates. I was hoping for a bit more than this. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ On a more positive note, I adored this smorgasbord of mythologies: Abrahamic, Greek, Egyptian...I loved it all! In addition, the Forged sphinxes reminded me a lot of Rachel Caine’s Great Library series, which was definitely a bonus. The lyrical writing style was also lovely, but never overwhelming. I really did enjoy this book and shall definitely be picking up the sequel next year...but my excitement for it has lessened a bit, unfortunately, due to the ending of this instalment. Hopefully, the sequel shall provide the closure that I desire. I’m definitely looking forward to giving the Star-Touched Queen duology a go, as well! :)