Grey Sister might as well be the most well-written book I've read in my life.  It's been two years since Nona Grey killed Raymel Tascis in the Corridor. Now she's back in the Convent of Sweet Mercy and the Mystic Class, training to join one of the four orders: Holy, Grey, Red, or Mystic Sister. But when an Inquisition arrives, Nona has trouble trying to hide two secrets that could get her expelled: A forbidden search of the stolen shipheart, and a demon that she's carrying under her skin. "Every law of church or state seeks to separate you from your anger. Every rule is there to tame you - to take from your hands that which you should own. Every stricture aims to place the vengeance that is yours in the grasp of courts, juries, justice and judges. Books of law look to replace what you know to be right with lines of ink. Prisons and executioners stand only to keep your hands from the blood of those who have wronged you. Every part of it exists to put time and distance between deed and consequence. To lift us from our animal nature, to cage and tame the best. "In Grey Sister, Mark Lawrence is reminiscent of a well-trained juggler, for he excels in balancing the most important elements of a story such as theme, plot, setting and conflict on one hand while he juggles character development, world-building and magic system on the other. I once said that Mark's work is one of beauty and ingenuity, and that is once again evident through his prose. Prose that not only assembles, orders and modifies, but also weaves together and adds value to the many layers of a story which unfolds with the precision of a timepiece crafted by a master artisan and excels at depicting realistically how deep loyalty lies in one's soul, for it is the paragon of love. I could keep going. I could rave about how Grey Sister is an epos in its original meaning; a literary masterpiece with no equal that will undoubtedly stand the test of time. I could praise it until I run out of words and need a thesaurus to continue. But I'll not. I'll simply tell you to read it and decide yourself.