I hate writing 3 star reviews. There, I said it. It's not because I don't think that they hold weight in the reviewing world, I just feel that those middle of the road reads are the most difficult to review without sounding like a 2nd grade book report. This book was fine. It was not great, but it was fine. Fine is how this book was. That said, I apologize for the following review and if it sounds repetitive and lacks flavor or conviction.I'm between a 3-4 star rating here, but I think I'm going to have to round down based on my personal reading experience. There's nothing wrong with this book, but I did find everything but the beginning and final 25% to be a tedious read. My deciding factor on a rating was mostly influenced by the fact that this felt very much like grisha fan fiction. Don't get me wrong, I love Leigh Bardugo's fantasy world and stand by my opinion that The Darkling is one of the most well written anti-heroes of all time, so I was surprised that Wicked Saints wasn't an automatic 5 star read for me. Did I swoon for the villain in this book? I definitely see the attraction to him, but maybe because I've already experienced a carbon copy of this plot, coupled with the fact that these characters felt inspired by our grisha love triangle, kept me from being as drawn in as I could have been. I'm not sure if the ending was supposed to catch us off guard, but I also found that if you've read Shadow and Bone, you'll already know what's going to happen and find a similar set up to what I imagine will be a similar trilogy from start to finish. The ending was action packed and deliciously dark (yes, this one is much darker than the grisha trilogy, despite its obvious similarities), and the epilogue was everything I could have dreamed of and more. Despite my conflicted feelings, I highly recommend others pick this one up and to decide for themselves how they perceive Wicked Saints, as I am eager to continue on with the author. *I received a review copy via the publisher.