((me: savage scream))That was SO GOOD!!!Wicked Saints is the first book in a YA Fantasy trilogy aptly titled, Something Dark and Holy. This was so dark and so damn holy. A debut novel!? Say what!?Y'all, if this is Duncan’s debut, she is definitely an author to watch.I picked this up just prior to release day, as I was generously provided a copy by the publisher, Wednesday Books, to read and review. I feel like I have been blessed.The tone of this is hella Grimdark and we all know, I live for that. Basically, in this world, a Holy War has been raging for centuries between two kingdoms, Kalyazin and Tranavia. The narrative alternates between three perspectives: Nadya, Serefin and Malachiasz. The world is vast and complex, yet feels like nothing to learn. Last week I reviewed another YA Fantasy book, I won’t name here, but I mentioned how I felt like I needed to be taking notes as I was reading.That shook me out of the story and made it hard for me to connect. With this book, even though vastly more complex, I never felt that. Whilst reading Wicked Saints, I felt like I was living these events along with the characters. I never felt that I didn’t understand what was going on or how the world worked.This, to me, is a sign of a great fantasy construct; well thought out and balanced. Even though this story takes place in a world that is being created from scratch, it's not overwhelming. Nadya, the main female protagonist, is the most fascinating to me. She was raised in a monastery in the mountains, where clerics and others were able to commune with their pantheon of Gods. Nadya is very special in that she is able to commune with all the Gods and can even gain magical powers from them. Most interesting is the fact that the Gods literally talk to her.Depending on the situation, and what powers she may need, she asks particular Gods for help. The Gods are all developed with their own personality and they can offer up guidance, a friendly chat or just be silent.I love this aspect! It made me think of the Disney animated movie, Hercules, with all the different Gods you meet; so much fun. It is a very unique element. I have never read anything quite like this in a YA Fantasy before.Due to circumstances I won’t get into here, Nadya is forced to flee the monastery, fearing for her life. Once on the road, she bumps into a traveling trio that includes another of our main characters, Malachiasz. Malachiasz is a complex character and a little difficult to explain. Let’s just say, he was once part of a very dangerous and secretive order of powerful blood mages called the Vultures.I know, right!? Doesn't that sound creepy and ominous AF?Yep. The Vultures are creepy masked guys and gals with the most murderous of intentions. They are so scary and powerful that they are referred to as ‘monsters’ by people outside the sect. Malachiasz is a defector from the sect, the only person known to have done so and survived. He confesses this to Nadya and tells her that he is essentially on the wrong side of the law in Tranavia.Our final main character is Serefin, the crown Prince of Tranavia. He has been leading armies for the past few years in the never-ending war with Kalyazin, but has recently been summoned home by his father, the King. Serefin is convinced his father is trying to take him out. Is he just paranoid, or does his father really intend to kill him? It is clear the King isn’t playing with a full deck and he is quite volatile; whispering around with the Vultures.When Nadya, Malachiasz and their traveling companions, arrive in the capital city, intent on stopping the war, whatever the cost, they come into contact with Serefin and begin to wonder, exactly whose side is he on?The writing in this is so delicious. Dark and gothic from the very start! If you love that kind of story, set in a harsh and unforgiving world, you need to pick this book up. It's so compelling, I just know there is going to be a huge fandom for this story, this world, these characters and this author!I am so excited to see where Duncan is going to go with this story. I just can’t even imagine what ultimately is going to happen. There are so many ways it could go, all of them bloody and brutal.Thank you so much to the publisher, Wednesday Books, for providing me with a copy to read and review. I appreciate the opportunity and will definitely be buying a finished copy for my collection!