[Updated 11/28]  [Updated 11/03] So I was able to see a few snippets from The Mafi Mafia's website (Tahereh gave them an 8-chaptered excerpt of Ignite Me) and here are the current snippets we have so far! "He's on his knees."—(???)"And we are quotation marks, inverted and upside down, clinging to one another at the end of this life sentence."—(???)"No. I am not going to kill you."—Warner"I am an hour glass."—Juliette (very first sentence in the book!)"You were harmless and beautiful and you always yelled at me." —Warner"The memory of his kisses along my torso; his hands exploring my back, my bare legs, the backs of my thighs, his fingers hooking around the elastic band of my underwear— Oh."—Juliette"I never realized Warner was unaware of how deeply I detested him."—Juliette"Aaron Warner Anderson, chief commander and regent of Sector 45, son of the supreme commander of The Reestablishment.He has a soft spot for fashion."—Juliette"It makes me feel ashamed for ever having felt sorry for myself."—Juliette"My seventeen years have collapsed and buried me from the inside out."—Juliette (sentence number two!) And my favorite thus far in page 1... wake upwake up"Wake up," he whispers. If I made some mistakes please do correct me for I have only gotten these quotes by squinting for two minutes at the blurred picture of the excerpt, trying to figure out what those words are. Well that's it for now! I'll give you guys some updates soon! And have you guys seen the cover for Fracture Me? Extremely beautiful and breath-taking! [Updated ??/??]The cover and title is finally revealed! And it is beautiful!!!Another reminder: In one of Tahereh's interview, she said that there will be a conclusion on who she ends up with...and we will find that out on the beginning portion of the third book~ So what I'm trying to say is: Juliette will be having sexy times with only one of these boys in the third book and I am hoping that it is Warner <3 [Updated 6/29]Hey guys! So for those of you who want to know about Warner's tattoo, I have a hint as to why it says IGNITE:In Destroy Me, he said in one of the chapters "I grieve nothing. I take everything." And if you get all the first letters in each word, it'll spell out IGNITE.