(source)This book was absolutely spectacular. And I desperately want to give it five stars. Unfortunately, I don't feel as if it deserves the full five - there were too many issues. But I want to make it clear to everyone that this comes as recommended as most of my fives. I want to get the issues out of the way first. The first half is really, really confusing. The pacing is just a little off; events feel slightly manufactured due to the confusion. But Hodge managed to keep me fairly engaged and interested, even when I was confused. My advice would be to push through the first 150 pages if they confuse you, because it is DEFINITELY worth it. The plot massively improves in the second half, with a few twists I didn’t see coming. Now, let’s talk everything amazing about the book. I LOVED RACHELLE. I cannot overexaggerate just how compelling I found her character. She has a good balance between overpowered and incompetent; she makes mistakes and she doesn’t always succeed, but she’s smart as a whip and tough as nails. She’s not merciless, but she’s also not afraid to kick ass or lie when she needs to. She’s confident and solid in herself, but also hates the darkness inside her. This is such an interesting, perfect balance. She’s very unlikable at times, but her character feels so realistic that it’s easy to ignore.“She didn't even look at me,” said Erec, his voice mock sad. “I wonder what I've done to offend her?”“Breathing, I think,” said Rachelle. “But also wearing that jacket.” I can totally understand why the romance plots annoyed some, but it drew me completely in. There is a love triangle, but it’s used entirely for character development. It is clear from the beginning which guy is right for Rachelle, and which one is wrong, but we also see why she likes both of them. I saw one review mention her quick jump in with the other guy as a negative, and I honestly have to disagree. That action absolutely fits into her character arc as I viewed it.The plot between Rachelle and Armand was awesome. I feel the same way about this romance plot as I did about the romance from Daughter of Smoke and Bone; yes, there's a wiff of instalove, but their relationship dynamic is compelling. The author gives reasons for their relationship; they understand each other and work well together. I found myself invested only 200 pages in. I liked that Armand was disabled but it doesn't hold him back; it's always great to see positive rep. Hodge also deserves praise for her prose. She depicts setting very well. While the worldbuilding isn’t completely the focus here, the descriptions of the city and the forest worked perfectly for me. I almost wish more time was spent in the city, because my mental image of it was beautiful. VERDICT: Despite some disengagement in the first half, this book manages to land solidly on its feet with excellent character work, a twisty plot, and a sweet romance. While it's messy at times, I highly recommend this. My Blog | My GR Account