3.5 Stars REMOVE THE TIN WOODMAN'S HEART  STEAL THE SCARECROW'S BRAIN TAKE THE LION'S COURAGE AND THEN DOROTHY MUST DIEOnce upon a time, There was a pink-haired girl named Amy Gumm. She lived in a trailer park with her mother. Her father left her and her mother behind to live with a woman named Crystal. When Amy turned 13 years old her mother had a car accident and started taking pills and this was the time her life was changed completely. Her mother wasn't a sweet mother anymore, she did not make breakfast or dinner anymore and she often went to bar, she cared her pet rat and didn't care about Amy. So Amy, she had to take care herself and her mother.One day, there was a tornado and transported her and her pet rat to Oz.But Oz was different. Dorothy found a way to come back to Oz and she had a taste of magic. She turned wicked and all of her friends were wicked and Amy's adventure was began. My Opinionwhen we talk about Oz I'm sure you would be thinking like this Oz  But this book is very different from that Oz. This Oz is very dark and corrupted and I liked this book, the story was good and I liked the writing style too.the first day I read this book I was so excited and the pacing was pretty fast but it all changed when I reached chapter 30. I don't know why but it got slow and it bored me so much. I even thought to DNF it but I ws already on chapter 30 so I had to make myself to finish it *sighs*the most thing I didn't like about this book apart from the pace was the relationship between the MC and the people around her. is it just me or this book doesn't describe the friendship between Amy and the people around her??? seriously, I felt nothing. when the first time I knew this book was a retelling from The Wizard Of Oz. I was so excited because I thought there would be an amazing friendship between the MC and her friends. while reading it I felt like this book was just focused on the how to kill dorothy and forgot to describe about the friendship. In my opinion the friendship between the MC and the people around her/his is as important as the story.The Romancethankfully there's no love triangle in this book. . The romance in this book is so weird. at the beginning of the story they hate each other and all of a sudden they love each other. the romance in this book was is confused me, the MC and the love-interest (Nox) don't talk much and all of a sudden he kisses her. it is weird they don't even talk much and then fall in love??? if there were a guy kissed me suddenly, I would definitely punch him. but Amy, I think she looks happy. Will I continue reading this series?thank you so much for reading my review guys!!Happy reading and hope you all have a great weekend!!❤❤❤