So, Dorothy must die, huh? Well, perhaps. But if this book is any indication, the cause of this cardiopulmonary arrest would be little else but frustrated boredom.How do you make the flip-one-of-the-most-known-and-beloved-stories-onto-its-head book uninteresting? Good question. Let me give you some pointers:-- 1) Make the beginning relatively strong, to draw the readers in and to remind them as the story drags along that this story had potential , that it could have had a strong narrative voice and a memorable protagonist. Then deploy the strategies below, catching the excited readers unaware:-- 2) You can consider padding your book out to make sure your story can eventually fit a trilogy, since trilogies is where the money is. However, instead of coming up with enough material for the trilogy, just stretch the boring segments of the story to achieve the necessary word count. For instance, take up a huge chunk of the book with drawn-out scenes of training that do not lead anywhere, and allow the reader to feel firsthand the monotony of a job of a poorly informed spy by detailing every little bit of the castle cleaning she needs to do while waiting for the plot to leisurely catch up with her. Drawn out does not even begin to describe it. Pacing? We don't need no stinking pacing!--- You win extra points if pages and pages have been spent on the boring scenes full of whiny inner monologue (oh, that unavoidable staple of first-person narration!), but the actually interesting bits are skipped over, and suddenly you realize that the regular girl from Kansas has suddenly become a witchcraft savant without apparently putting more effort into it than a few clumsily constructed fighting scenes that appear to be written by someone who only has a very theoretical idea of fighting.“You’ve gotten so much better. It’s not just the magic. It’s the rest of it. I don’t even think you know you’re doing it. The way you move; the way you think on your feet. You’ve gotten so good so fast. You’re a natural, you know.”-- 3) While you're at it, why don't you throw in some requisite stereotypes about women? Here are some suggestions:(A) Openly describing your villain looking as a proverbial... Well, let me have the book speak for itself here: "Instead of farm-girl cotton it was silk and chiffon. The cut was somewhere between haute couture and French hooker. The bodice nipped, tucked, and lifted. There was cleavage.Lots of cleavage."Because, clearly, provocatively dressing and being evil is closely related. Because good girls clearly would never dare to wear revealing clothes. Because hypersexualized evil is so much worse and easier identifiable than the same evil dressed demurely. The sad thing is that this book, while stooping to slut-shaming, tries to project the opposite:“I hate to break it to you, but just because someone has pretty hair and good skin tone and a crown instead of a pointy hat doesn’t mean she’s not the baddest bitch this side of the Emerald City.”(B) Introducing petty jealousy among women, centered at the whatever boy they find attractive. Because, as books tell us, women have to be in constant competition for male attention, regardless of the context and situation. Like this bit, where Amy meets a wounded girl to whom her love interest seems to pay some attention, because priorities, clearly:"Being abandoned with no explanation didn’t bother me. What bothered me, suddenly, surprisingly, was how much more Nox cared about helping this other girl.”Or the bit where our lovely protagonist's hostility towards another woman is triggered without any cause - except for the 'culprit' being another woman, therefore another potential competitor for the precious boy. This particular side character serves no other purpose in this book other than the jealousy bit: “Something about the way Melindra flicked open her metal lashes reminded me of Madison back home. Like she already hated me and we hadn’t even met yet.”Good thing the noble love interest has eyes only for our lovely heroine who's better than anyone else: “Nox returned, handing a knife to Annabel, who thanked him with a flirty smirk. Nox ignored it. Or maybe he just didn’t notice it in the first place.” Because Oz or another magical place, in books like this one it always comes down to nothing but this: “It was the halls of high school all over again.”-- 4) Overload your book with modern slang and pop culture references to make it sound modern and edgy. I'm sorry, but a character native to Oz should not be referencing 'History of Oz 101' unless Oz *just happens* to share American educational system.-- 5) Heavily rely on readers' familiarity with the Oz characters thanks to the books and the film, and therefore put minimal effort into developing most of them for the purposes of your story. Just throw in a sentence or two and expect the readers to fill in the blanks thanks to the pre-developed world someone else created for you. After all, why would you make the extra effort? The lack of overall character development is so much more prominent when comparing them to a few that have actually received proper literary treatment.--  6) And in the end, have the entire bloated book read like little but a prequel-sort introduction to all the interesting events that may happen in the next book - as long as you shell out some $$ on it.--------Was there anything good about this book? Well, yes. The beginning was reasonably solid. Not all characters felt weak - for instance, I still had a soft spot for Indigo even all the long boring pages later. The creepiness of the setting was frequently well-shown. --------2 stars. That's what I think about going on another adventure with Amy Gumm and her crew from this book:[image error]