It’s a profoundly strange thing, to feel as though you are wading through mildly entertaining books that pass through you without leaving any trace that it had ever been there, always searching for the one that will reach—not through you but—into the back alleys of your soul and settle there, lingering. And then all of a sudden, like a faint spark bobbing on a dark sea, calling you, beckoning... it is there.The sheer joy of it is like what all the books you’ve ever read have been aspiring to be; the scales of what is good, great, and transcendent shifting and recalibrating in your head. The story that is a door creaking open in your chest, pouring light into that deep hollowness. A story like a sacred secret burning like a lantern in the center of you, something you could crawl into if only you believed in it hard enough. To borrow some of Morgenstern’s words, “books are always better when read rather than explained.” Words fall short of this marvel, but I want you to read this book, so I have to try.“For those who feel homesick for a place they’ve never been to. Those who seek even if they do not know what (or where) it is that they are seeking. Those who seek will find. Their doors have been waiting for them.”A subterranean library where reality can be shuffled like a deck of cards—a drunken mangle of past and present. Stories that wander off the edge of the page, filled with teeth and armored with immortality. People who wander off the edge of the map,  perilously and fathomlessly free, the unnameable future ahead of them—endless reams of blank paper. And the secret society undoing it all, unwinding the Starless Sea thread by thread, until it falls away.And in the center of it all: Zachary Ezra Rawlins.This is Erin Morgernstern’s much-anticipated second novel. The basics, at least. The bones. But stories—as stories often do—grow in the telling:Zachary Ezra Rawlins stumbles across an authorless book in the library, and in the deepest, most unshakable part of himself where reason was useless, he knows without a doubt that it is narrating a long-ago event of his childhood. Back when 11-year-old Zachary found a painted door, unknowingly teetering on the invisible edge of a great cliff, but held himself back from the seething, teeming sea below. The door (and the unspoken invitation) was gone the next day, like a wave washing clean over sand. But here, in The Starless Sea, is a second chance, a do-over. The scattered uncertainties of Zack's childhood fall away, and in their stead is is the unwritten story, still swelling in its hollows, breathing tendrils of beautiful magic into the air. And something else too, something with the faintest hint of danger in it. Soon, dreams and nightmares start borrowing each other’s faces, and Zachary’s time is running out. If only he knew what for. “I think people came here for the same reason we came here,” Dorian says. “In search of something. Even if we didn’t know what it was. Something more. Something to wonder at. Someplace to belong. We’re here to wander through other people’s stories, searching for our own.”I loved this book, and have never been sadder to turn the last page. The Starless Sea is a love-letter to those of us dogged with the invisible burden of unbelonging, which too often stirs us from the stillness and sends us out into the page in search of solace. Those of us who carry stories like a secret talisman in our pockets, and rub words for comfort until they are worn smooth as creek stones. Those of us who once turned away from our own painted doors before we took courage and learned to feel the surge of fear and relish it.Emerging after eight years—like a glittering literary cicada—with a remarkably powerful novel, Morgenstern holds our gaze for the space of a few hundred pages and fills it with what she wills. Having read The Night Circus and enjoyed it, I knew the author’s imagination is keener than almost anyone's. But in this novel, Morgenstern's pen seems to carry a deeper heart inside it, and a deeper warmth too. It's such a joy to read her writing, to linger on every line, to turn it over, to read and re-read passages so drenched with meaning, thundering with it. If you thought the scope of The Night Circus was wide, the plot Morgenstern engineers here is even more recklessly splendid. There are tales layered upon tales here, and characters who are freed to wander, leaving their books to taste life in other stories. One thing is familiar, though, and that's the impression of effortlessness Morgenstern is so good at, which bellies an immaculate precision and profound care for details.I couldn't stop reading this book. As much as I really wanted to sit back and luxuriate over the Morgenstern's beautiful prose, I kept going, going, going, chasing after every sentence as if the words themselves were on horseback, racing after the riddles of Fate and Time, of pirates and tongueless acolytes, of weary travelers, and wearier lovers, of foretelling sculptors, and all-seeing Owls, before getting swept out by a rogue wave to the Starless Sea, and swimming against riptides, finally staggering ashore to a landscape I couldn’t begin to make sense of, yet which was still as familiar as the remembrance of a touch. Morgenstern makes you experience it all, and the result is a novel that inhales you as much as you inhale it.But The Starless Sea is, above all, a love story. One that will pluck at every single one of your heartstrings. Zachary and Dorian’s love tale was sometimes as fierce as joy, and sometimes like a knife blade pressed to flesh. It's tender and unmistakable and dangerous and true. The kind that starts with a held gaze in a sea of indifferent stares, the two of you the only fixed points in a universe of motion. Shock, recognition, and a deep sense of familiarity. This person that is “a place you could lose yourself in, and never wish to be found,” this frenzied and fevered need to know one another. Morgenstern writes about it so touchingly, with just enough touch of tragedy to keep you glued to the pages, both dreading and longing for what's next. In short, Morgenstern has a forever reader in me. “And no story ever truly ends as long as it is told.”