I finished this book last night but waited till this morning to review it. Had I not, I suspect that the review would have been a bit more...vitriolic.I've run on several mediocre YA novels recently and that not only disappoints me, but gives me pause. maybe I'm getting harder to please?Having just gone through the Percy Jackson series and found it disappointing and reading a book by Tamora Pierce which I found mostly stultifyingly dull, I was rooting for this one. Unfortunately it just didn't workout, at least for me. I'm a fantasy fan so, while the reality in this book requires some heavy duty suspension of belief, that's not in itself an insurmountable problem. The biggest problem(s) is/are in the story itself and the characters who populate it. Most of the "people" here I just either couldn't care about, or I just didn't like. Finn wasn't too bad except for the failings everyone has here, but Claudia.... Claudia is petulant (yes I said petulant), willful, somewhat thoughtless and then when you roll all that up and make her thoughtlessness grow into either stupidity or foolishness it can be more than a person can bear. I know you don't ask for "reality" in a fantasy story, but there has to be a certain "reality" a form of logic within a book's own reality. Time and time again Claudia does things that had she really done them, the story would have ended early in some form of disaster for her and/or her tutor. Some times she makes an...lets be kind, an "unwise" decision, and it just sort of goes unnoticed or something, the ax never falls.There are problems with the story telling itself also. Several times (for example) there is a tense situation, something is crashing or exploding and debris is falling all around, danger is everywhere. Or, possibly the characters are somewhere and enemies, guards etc. are closing in and something must be done! Or, their barricaded in a room and the battering ram is smashing down the door...we have to do something and do it NOW! And you'll get a line like this..."he/she stood staring off into the distance for several minutes, saying nothing". What?! Oh come on.All in all the book escapes the one star rating as I've read worse, but I don't plan to follow the series. If you enjoyed the book I'm really happy for you, I really wanted to like the book, but it just left me cold and by a little over half way through I was simply skipping ahead... sorry.Some of this it will be argued is simply "characteristics of a given character", but if the action continues throughout the book, thoughtless action after unwise decision it gets old, not endearing or cute or brave. I was just tired by books end. Maybe you won't see the book this way but I just didn't like it. At this point, I have one more YA book, that I've been asked to read by someone, and then I think I may do some nonfiction only reading for a while and after that get to some of the books that I've been wanting to read for months or years that aren't for reading groups etc. The ones on my own shelves. Some adult level, non YA reading as it were. Maybe I'm just burned out.