Where to begin? I just loved this book so much. Reading it was like drinking a white chocolate mocha, oh so delicious. Maybe I'm really weird, but I've always thought prisons were kind of...cool. Not the modern day kind, but the medieval types. Strange, maybe, but I just find dungeons really interesting. ANYWAY, Incarceron is the ULTIMATE prison. It's alive, and it has a perosonality, which is just so unbelievably awesome. I must admit, the twists were very predictable, but I didn't mind, because the plot is so rich with fun and original things, from metal forests to flying ships, living, breathing storms, and interesting characters. The POV is switched mainly between Finn and Claudia, but also jumps to the secondary characters like Jared, Keiro, and Attia. I loved getting the different perspectives, especially since each of them has a very distinct personality, some so unlikable they became likable. I guess you could say the book is pretty dark, what with chaining people up and treating them like dogs, but this darkness is overshadowed, because Finn is not alone; he has friends. At first, he questions whether or not his two companions actually care about him at all, thinking they're using him only as a means to escape the prison etc.., but over the course of the novel, as the characters grow,he realizes that they really are his friends--they may not be perfect, but they do care about him. What I can't stand is when a character has no friends. IMO, a book is only really too dark when the main character is alone. But Finn isn't alone, and there's always the hope of escape. Action is on almost every page, and if not action, there's serious character interaction going on. Since it's hard to get a feel for how the characters really ARE on the inside, it was always so exciting hearing their conversations with each other and seeing how they helped each other in dangerous situations, because I could never be sure what was coming next, how they would react. The characters were unpredictable, but not inconsitent; they felt extremely real, and their emotions were raw. I could relate to each of them, despite their extreme differences. Outside of the prison, we get somewhat of a breather from the non-stop intensity with Claudia, the prison warderns daughter. She wasn't unlikable, but I can't say I really loved her, either. She was real, though, which made me actually CARE what happened to her. She had good characteristics to balance out the bad ones, though. Her protectiveness of Jared, her tutor, was honest and kind of cute. I got the feeling Jared really LOVED her..LOVED her LOVED her. I know he's older than her and all, but what really annoys me is that Fisher never actually says how old he is. He could be anywhere from 20 to 40. She should have at least narrowed it down. Also, his disease? She should have explained that more, because it seems kind of random...unless it comes up in the next book. From where I stand, though, it seems kind of pointless, since the story doesn't really need anymore sadness. The writing was smooth and not distracting...nothing remarkable, but good. I was dragged in from the very first sentence, because I HAD to know what would happen next. Not only in relation to the plot, but in realtion to the characters. I kept thinking...Is he really as bad as he seems? Or, Is she really as nice as she seems? It was exciting...enthralling...intense...creative...and just really cool. Plus, Fisher doesn't sugar coat things. I've seen/read tons of characters who wake up with no memories whatsoever, and they usually act normal, just getting up and walking straight into life as if nothing is wrong. That always pissed me off. I mean...if I woke up with no memories at all?? I think I'd probably be at least a little creeped out, if not terrified. I'd be sad, at least. With Finn, finally, I get my realistic reaction. Waking up in a dark, dirty, prison cell with no memories...what do you do?? Cry yourself into a vomiting fit, yes. Get up and explore while humming a cheerful tune, no. So, thank you, Catherine Fisher, for making it realistic. Also, if someone had their mind wiped, you'd think it would have some type of effect on their brain. With Finn, with each memory that tries to wriggle back into his mind, he suffers seizures, which ACTUALLY MAKES SENSE! OH MY GOD! Something realistic! Thank you SO MUCH. Basically, I adore this book...I need to read it again asap.