I found it difficult to enjoy Incarceron at first.You know that saying, Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it? Ya, this is Incarceron all over.So there's two worlds in this one story. There's the "real" world and the Incarceron world.The real world is a futuristic world with fantastical technologies - which are not used much because the King of that world decided that change was bad, progress - demeaning and invention - unsafe. So he reverted the whole world to a pre-regency era and forced everyone to act out his weird fantasy.Okay, first of all, this worked SO well when China did it a few hundred years ago. Yeah. They really benefited from that one. Second of all, it's not like the pre-regency era was full of ecstatically happy people either. Sad to say but the idea was just dumb. Dumb, dumb, dumb.Then you have the Incarceron world which is basically a giant prison where people from the "real" world sent their thieves, poor people and miscreants. Okay, first of all, once again, been there, done that! I live in Australia - okay. This idea is not new! Did it make England a happier place? No. Did it mean that Australia is some demented country full of criminals and wargangs that are bloodthirsty and ruthless? Okay, totally not going to answer that...No, Australia is great. Wonderful place and we didn't have all the technology and resources they packed into this place. I mean, seriously. HOW COULD YOU FAIL?! They stuck us on this dry, barren continent with pretty much NOTHING. Did you know that in the entire fleet that landed in Australia to settle, there was not a single farmer? There was almost no trades people, or anybody who knew ANYTHING about livestock, working the land, mining or anything. And yet, behold our success. So I want to know how these morons fucked up so bad. Really, I do.Okay, so other than these two stupid and ridiculous premises, Incarceron is actually a pretty great book. I thought at first that all the "big surprises" were painfully easy to grasp in the first 70 pages but I was wrong. I was so wrong. I stared open-mouthed at the end of the book muttering, "Well, flippity-doo-dah-day, you got me there, Fisher!"Characters are pretty good. The two main characters and the big "romance" aren't really that great. They're kind of average and there IS no romance. The romance is a lie. It's nothing. But the other characters are pretty entertaining and interesting.World building is unique and fun.Not much else to say really. It was a good read, I enjoyed it. I'll read the next one because I want to know what happens. I wouldn't say I ABSOLUTELY loved it, but it was pretty good.