Eh, I did not care much for this one. “Children are adults who haven't yet learned to make fear their hand puppet.”It started strong (see quote above) but quickly lost me. It’s just one of those books that you don’t feel bad putting aside for a while and pick up to finish mostly out of the feeling of obligation, constantly keeping an eye on how much longer was left in the book, hoping just to get to the end faster and be done with it - and not because I really cared to see what’s happening. I don’t DNF books as a rule, so on and on I trudged.It’s not exactly boring — but rather simply unengaging. Despite the deep themes addressed, to me it felt flat, forced and a bit shallow. It lacked cohesion, remaining more like a mishmash of bits and parts instead of becoming a greater whole. The potential was there but it was never fully developed.I just could not care about the main characters - Patricia and Laurence - and at the same time there wasn’t enough plot or world-building or engaging SFF or moral concepts to overcome the lack of character engagement. (I mean, take for instance Kim Stanley Robinson. I think most of his characters are often little but cardboard cutouts — but his skill with world-building and making the world - Mars, Antarctica, Paleolithic - be a character in its own right makes up for that many times over. Anders does not achieve that.) The clash between supposed SF bits and fantasy bits to me felt awkward and full of tired stereotypes without much depth. Stereotypes and tropes work well usually if you are satirizing them, but here they seemed to be just there for the sake of being there, making it feel a bit cartoonish at times. That stereotypical misunderstood misfits / terrible adult figures / opposites awkwardly attract / caricature over-the-top villains plot points just felt flat. And don’t even get me started on their supposed love story — there’s little chemistry there besides authorial plan for them to like each other. Nope, I did not buy it.You guys. I’m just putting this quote here because misery loves company. Puffy suckable nipples and shaved pubes among all the body hair. “She gazed at Laurence’s face (which looked squarer and more handsome without a big shirt collar framing it), his surprisingly puffy and suckable-looking nipples, his shaved pubes, and the way the leg and stomach hair erupted in a heart-shaped ring around the depilated zone. And she felt like they, the two of them, right here, right now, could make something that defied tragedy.” And the writing itself was just serviceable and a bit uneven. The dialogue especially was off - stilted and unnatural. The pacing was often jarring, and interesting parts are often skipped over. The lack of cohesiveness between the story parts was annoying. Altogether it got tiring enough that I could no longer even appreciate what were supposed to be “delightful” quirks.Yeah, I loved Charlie Jane Anders on io9, but I seem to have a more adversarial relationship with her books. “All the upscale organic microrestaurants in SoMa had gone under, so Laurence and Serafina ended up eating at a greasy diner selling Chinese food and donuts. The donuts were fresh, but the General Tso’s chicken was a little too general.”Snobs. Pass me the General Chicken, please.2 stars.—————Wait a second! I just realized: *this* is the book that won the 2016 Nebula Award over Jemisin’s The Obelisk Gate??? Really?