I hated this book.If you want the epic rant, read on... but beware: profanity and spoilers.The writing was shitty. It was wildly uneven and trying WAY TOO HARD to be relevant to an ironic hipster Internet crowd, which really doesn't exist except in liberal website comment sections and people's political rant blogs, and if I have to read about another eco-friendly locally sourced vegan hole in the wall restaurant that our characters go to pick up their overpriced coffees while the world is crumbling around them and they know people dying in refugee camps, I will scream.The story was shitty. It utterly fell apart in the second half. Nothing made sense. When the terms "superscience" and "doomsday machine" are used by characters more than once, I know this shit's going to be bad. The magic wasn't any better either. I think it wanted to be Brakebills. IT WASN'T. The story is supposed to be somehow (I guess, I can't really tell) about how Patricia and Laurence are fated to either end the world or save the world when they grow up. But it sure does spend a lot of time on these two things:Patricia: "I want to ease people's suffering but my toxic asshole friends won't let me because I'm a nice person but everyone's convinced me that I'm actually the most egotistical person in the world despite all evidence to the contrary"Laurence: "I have a successful career in science saving the world with gobs of money while skydiving but wahh my beautiful girlfriend is drifting away and every time I see Patricia I notice the dimples on the backs of her knees or how perky her small (but big during sex) breasts are"... and then they just spend a lot of time falling in and out of friendship and love with each other, because clearly their interpersonal train wreck is more important than the 1.7 billion people at critical famine levels (p. 279) and the fact that a bunch of people, including family members and friends, died in a superstorm that devastated the country (p. 226). Oh, and the fact that both of them have pledged themselves in their respective disciplines to fix this problem. But instead we get a sex scene where we are left in no doubt whatsoever about the state of Laurence's pubes.... AND their problems just get fixed with massive deus ex machina moments, because OF COURSE a main character accesses unheard of magical talents at the critical moment to destroy the doomsday machine....But wait, there's more! The not-so-bad people will become evil and try to destroy the world with a robot! And then the other not-so-bad people will ALSO become evil and try to unravel humanity. WHY WON'T THIS STORY JUST EFFING STOP.The characters were shitty. Our main characters are soulsucking helpless waffling dipshits shoved into a shitty romance with each other. The side characters were heartless assholes, like...-abusive parents ("we'll lock you in a room for a week and slide your food under the door, because this is clearly the best way to motivate a 6-year-old to succeed in life")-school bullies-horrible friends who want to police your self-esteem and tear you down-an assassin bent on killing children-at least one authority figure who sees an abused, naked boy in a closet and does the equivalent of yawn and look away. (This is p. 110, actually, and he "...waved, then went back to looking at his phone with a bored expression on his face")-and all those other people who could have had compassion for hurting children and a hurting world, but didn'tIt was shitty and I hated it.Does this book actually deserve the vitriol I've hurled at it? No.But every once in a while, we are all allowed to unapologetically, irrationally loathe something. If you want to read a fantasy novel about unlikable people being dicks to each other and making horrible mistakes, please read The Magicians by Lev Grossman instead, because that book actually has a plot, and character growth, and a well-developed consistent theme, and it's written so. much. better.Or, you know, read All the Birds in the Sky, because Lev Grossman blurbed it and said it was great ("a magnificent novel" and "unmissable"). I could just be really, really wrong, but a part of me says I'm not.("Aggrandizement!")UPDATE 7/2/2017: This book is fated to win all major genre awards this year just to spite me. What have I done in this life or a past life to deserve this?!