ImpressiveSo I kinda loved this. We have 2 junior high outcasts named Patricia and Laurence, both painfully geeky and both destined to change the world.Until they grow up and go their separate ways to discover that what made them different made them awesome.Patricia goes to a magical school that was founded by the joining two seemingly disparate groups: healers and tricksters (#foreshadowing). It's like if you took The Ability by way of The Magicians for the magical aspects of her life. It's supernatural yet really grounded in reality and there's a grittiness to the harsh lessons she learns along the way. She discovers she's a witch by talking to birds and a magical tree as a young child.A young Laurence witnesses her magic and is so freaked out that he abjures her for years.Before he does that, wunderkind Laurence is working on creating a supercomputer in his closet and enlists Patricia to help him create the AI algorithm for it (#foreshadowing). He eventually becomes a tech genius while his program runs forgotten in the background for years, gaining more awareness.They reunite years later and both have changed. Laurence is now a bit douchey and has helped to create an anti-gravity machine. Patricia is almost like a superhero, going around and healing people by night but working crappy jobs during the day. She saves the day on multiple occasions, only to disappear before getting as much as a thank you.As typical of a romance, the protagonists come together, go apart, and repeat this pattern over and over again. Yet, this story different. Both have their own lives; as in, they both have other things to concentrate on other than each other. And the characters are well-rounded and feel like actual people, instead of the standard flat fare most readers are treated to these days. Charlie Jane Anders has a skill for writing people and a deep understanding of the human condition, which makes this book all the more engrossing.What I didn't like was the fact that there were too many loose threads with other characters. Plus, the magical school needed more information. I understand why it wasn't given much attention, pacing-wise, but it still would have been interesting to learn more about.Eventually the AI created by Laurence (now named Peregrine) is fuzed with Patricia's magical tree, mirroring the earlier connection of the 2 distinct magical schools."You gave me life, but now you've given me something more valuable. I think we're going to do amazing things together. This is just the beginning. Carmen and the other witches were right, people need to change. I have spent my entire life studying human interactions at a granular level, and now I can see the nonhuman interactions as well. I think we can empower people. Every human can be a wizard."Laurence typed: "or a cyborg?""A cyborg," said Peregrine, "will be the same thing as a wizard. We're working on it, anyway. Give us a little time." -pp. 312