This was a much better anthology than Dangerous Women. The majority of the novellas included in Rogues were entertaining. A few were really good. Most of the big name authors stories lived up to my expectations. Here is some short thoughts on each novella: Introduction: Everybody Loves a Rogue by George R.R. MartinI liked the intro. Martin explains that he has always preferred reading or watching characters who are more grey than black or white. He thinks they are more interesting. He then goes on to mention a bunch of his favorite rogues across many genres. It was good to know the characters who influenced Martin. I also enjoyed hearing Martin's theory that genre boundaries have hardened over the years and that readers need to be more adventurous. There are no good and bad genres, he explains, only good and bad books!Tough Times All Over by Joe AbercrombieThis was a novella from Abercrombie's First Law series. The story followed the progress of an item as it passed through the hands of multiple different characters. Some of the characters were interesting and others were not. Unfortunately none of the characters were all that likable. Abercrombie has a strangely crude and distant writing style, which combined with the unlikable characters, makes it hard to love this. It's better than the dreadful Abercrombie novella in the Dangerous Women anthology, but that's not saying much. Rating: 3 stars. What Do You Do? by Gillian FlynnThis was really good. It was well written and very engaging. I was a little shocked by the way the story started, but that's likely just the prude in me. For such a short story this really kept the reader guessing. I loved the twists and turns and the way the nature of the story was constantly changing. In the end this was a great horror/thriller. Rating: 5 stars. Before I read this I had no real interest in reading any of Gillian Flynn's books. Now I'm highly anticipating reading Gone Girl. The Inn Of The Seven Blessings by Matthew HughesThis was fun classic style fantasy romp. While traveling through a forest Raffalon, a roguish thief, stumbles across the belongings of a man who has been kidnapped by a clan of cannibals. Among the possessions is a forgotten minor God who "convinces" Raffalon rescuing the the kidnap victim would be in his best interests. I enjoyed the bargaining and banter between Raffalon and the forgotten God. The story was short but fun.I may try more books in this series from Matthew Hughes in the future.Rating: 3.5 stars. Bent Twig by Joe R. LansdaleI loved reading Wrestling Jesus in the DW anthology so I was really interested in reading this novella. It's from Lansdale's Hap and Leonard series. It was a decent read, but not nearly as good as Wreslting Jesus. Hap and Leonard seemed like an interesting and funny duo and they pulled no punches while saving Hap's stepdaughter from a terrible fate at the hands of some drug dealers. I may be tempted into trying the first book in the series one day as Lansdale does have a very readable writing style.Rating: 3.5 stars. Tawny Petticoats by Michael SwanwickThis was the tale of the con men Darger and Surplus. They decide to add a female to the team to help them pull the "black money" scam on the leaders of an alternative future New Orleans. The setting was quite interesting and the world building by Swanwick was good. It was easy to imagine this world where labor zombies were common place and the USA had broken up into small city states. I really liked Swanwick's take on zombies. The story itself was interesting enough, but probably perfectly sized. Rating: 3 stars. Provenance by David BallThis is the tale of a Caravaggian painting from it's origins in Italy to the hands of a shifty art dealer in New York. It's not my usual sort of read but I did enjoy the flashbacks to the paintings history in Italy and Nazi Germany. The ending was also quite good. Rating: 3 stars. Roaring Twenties by Carrie VaughnThis was a fun Urban Fantasy set in the prohibition era. It followed two women who were trying to convince a nightclub owner to hire them to protect the nightclub from natural and supernatural intruders. The characters were likable enough and so was the story. Carrie Vaughn has an engaging writing style. Rating: 3 stars. A Year and a Day in Old Theradane by Scott LynchThis was not a novella from the Gentleman Bastard world, but it did have a similar feel. It follows a group of famous thieves as they are forced out of retirement to do one last job. The world building was very good. Lynch's fantasy/steampunk setting was well drawn and interesting. I loved the mix of magic and technology in this world. The characters were a likable and witty bunch. The dialogue provided much entertainment. The story itself was fast paced and fun. It was always interesting following the gangs latest attempt to complete their job before the year and a day deadline expired. It had a few flaws. The story/world/characters were all very similar to those in the Gentlemen Bastards world. Unfortunately while this novella did have the excellent world building, interesting plot, likable characters, and humor to match the Gentlemen Bastards series it lacked the same level of drama or emotional appeal. On the whole I was happy with this story and would be delighted to read more novellas featuring Amarelle and the rest of the gang.Rating: 4.5 stars. Bad Brass by Bradley DentonThis story tells the tale of a substitute teacher who indulges in a secondary job of robbing other thieves. In this story the thieves he plans to rob are high school students who are trying to sell musical instruments they have stolen from their school. This was quite an easygoing read and Denton has an engaging writing style. It was easy to like the main character, despite his light fingered ways, because he was averse to violence and ended up doing more harm than good. This was one of the longer novellas in the collection and it took advantage of this by giving us a larger cast of well drawn secondary characters. Rating: 3.5 stars. Heavy Metal by Cherie PriestThis slow paced Urban Fantasy was a bit of a bore. We followed a ghost-buster of sorts as he tried to rid a lake of a supernatural creature. The pace was too plodding. Priest spent too much time describing meaningless items like coffee mugs and not enough time fleshing out the world or characters. As a result I had a hard time picturing the setting and an even more difficult time caring about any of the characters. Rating: 2 stars.The Meaning Of Love by Daniel AbrahamThe was an entertaining fantasy story with a few interesting twists and turns. The story was set in an outlaw city and follows Asa, a fixer of sorts, who's current assignment is to keep a prince who is in political exile safe. The arrival of some Bounty Hunters marks the start of some interesting times for Asa. Despite being far more grey of character than white the resourceful and quick witted Asa was a likable character. This was my first taste of Daniel Abraham, but it will not be the last. I'll also be quite happy if we see more of Asa at some point in the future. Rating: 4 stars.A Better Way To Die by Paul CornellThis was supposed to be like a sci-fi James Bond. Which sounds awesome. Unfortunately it was not. What we got instead was a very confusing sci-fi world and characters that lacked any humor or charm. It was a bit boring. This is apparently the fourth Jonathan Hamilton short story Cornell has written. Perhaps if a reader has read the previous short story the weird sci-fi terms like "the balance" will have made sense to them. This definitely did not work as a standalone novella.Rating: 2 stars.Ill Seen In Tyre by Steven SaylorThis follows the adventures Saylor's Gordianus and Antipater as they visit Antipater's home town of Tyre and relive an adventure of Fritz Leiber’s Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser involving a spell book and an invisibility potion. I found Saylor's writing quite engaging. Unfortunately I was not all that enamored by his heroes and I found the story a bit juvenile. This felt like a wasted opportunity for a good story.Rating: 3 stars.A Cargo Of Ivories by Garth NixNix's heroes Sir Hereward and Mister Fitz battle thieves and try to block some minor Gods from being reincarnated. Mister Fitz is an enchanted puppet sorcerer. This could have been good, as the story was mildly intriguing. Sadly, I never clicked with Nix's writing style and I found the characters a little distant. Also it's a total fail, in my eyes, if any story including an enchanted puppet fails to make that puppet either terrifyingly creepy or totally hilarious. Rating: 2 stars.Diamonds From Tequila by Walter Jon WilliamsThis was a spin off novella from Williams's Dagmar series featuring self absorbed actor Sean Makin from The Fourth Wall. In this novella Sean is filming a movie in Mexico when he gets caught up in a whirlwind of intrigue which includes a dead actress, Mexican drug lords, and an some weird applications for 3D printing technology. I liked this. Sean was egotistical and self centered, but still strangely likable. The first person narrative was very engaging. I'll try the Dagmar series at some point in the future.Rating: 4 stars. The Caravan to Nowhere by Phyllis EisensteinThis was a decent enough novella featuring Eisenstein's Alaric the Minstrel. It was a slow paced, but entertaining story. Alaric joins a trade caravan which is crossing a dessert. The merchant leader of the caravan trades in addictive drugs. It's a dangerous trade in more ways than one. Alaric was a likable character and his ability to teleport was fun. Rating: 3 stars. The Curious Affair of the Dead Wives by Lisa TuttleI'm not usually much of a fan of mystery novels, but this Sherlock Holmes inspired novella was a decent read. Tuttle has an engaging writing style and the story was quite interesting. The mystery had a few twists and turns and even had a hint of the paranormal about it. The characters were likable enough. Rating: 3.5 stars. How the Marquis Got His Coat Back by Neil GaimanThis was a sequel novella to Neverwhere, which I've never read, and was of a similar quality to Stardust and Coraline, both of which I have read. I think at this point I'm just going to have to admit that I'm not a Neil Gaiman fan. I find his fantasy worlds more ridiculous than surreal, and his characters distant and impossible to care about. Rating: 2.5 stars.Now Showing by Connie WillisI really enjoyed this cynical near future sci-fi tale. The story had plenty of humor, intrigue, and romance. This was a trip to the movies that turned out to be more, or less, than a trip to the movies. To begin with I feared the constant movie references would get annoying, but thankfully Willis avoided this pitfall by using them to inject a little humor to the story. Rating: 4 stars.Audio Note: The audio was narrated by actress Molly Quinn. She did a decent job and only occasionally lapsed into the annoying over dramatization that plagued her Castle co star Stana Katic when she narrated a few of the novellas in the Dangerous Women anthology. The Lightning Tree by Patrick RothfussThis was a novella from Rothfuss's Kingkiller Chronicles series. It features a day in the life of Kvothe's mysterious apprentice Bast. It was an engaging and entertaining tale. Bast is an intriguing character and was more likable than I expected him to be. That said, he definitely retains his aura of danger and mystery. Rating: 5 stars. The Rogue Prince, or, a King's Brother by George R.R. MartinThis was a prequel to Martin's novella in the Dangerous Women anthology and is written in the same style. We get another history lesson from Archmaester Gyldayn of the Citadel of Oldtown. This was the tale of Prince Daemon Targaryen and his ambition to one day be crowned King of Westeros. In this story we also learn of the events and tensions that lead to the bloody happenings in The Princess and the Queen. I really enjoyed the story. Martin excels at writing these sort of in depth stories filled with political intrigue and a large cast of characters. Rating: 4.5 stars. Overall rating for Rogues: 4 stars. This was a worthwhile anthology. Audio Note: The audiobook was narrated by multiple different narrators. I like this approach when it comes to anthologies as I feel it gives each story a bit of separation from the previous one. The narrators that most impressed me were: Julia Whelan, Janis Ian, Gil Bellows, and Iain Glen.