4.5 stars
“Between us, we have the fire and the water,” she said quietly. “I’m quite sure that together, we can take on the wind.”
In one of my status updates, I asked, "Is it possible to be sexually attracted to a book?" The answer is yes. Unequivocally yes.Those of you that might have been worried The Dragon Republic suffers from Second Book Syndrome can rest easy. There's mountains of overarching plot in this baby. It picks up pretty soon after the events of the last book. Rin is commander of the Cike now that Altan is dead and has turned assassin for Moag, the self-proclaimed pirate queen, in exchange for troops and resources to take on Empress Daji. That falls apart rather quickly though and Rin soon finds herself thrown back into war—behind the Dragon Warlord, Nezha's father, as he plans a coup. There are so many twists. Some I called ages ago, like  Nezha being alive and is a shaman, but they were very neatly foreshadowed and didn't take away my enjoyment of the novel.Hesperians finally make an appearance, after being vaguely referenced last book. Their religion Makerism is essentially Judeo-Christianity. One Maker against the forces of Chaos. The Pantheon with 64 gods, to them, is barbaric and unholy. Hesperians don't exactly come off looking well here, but it is accurate to history. They were the first colonialists, way back before Japan invaded China in the mid-nineteenth century. Their role in this book can be summed up by one gif from Pocahontas:Rin continues to be one of the most morally complex characters I've ever had the pleasure to read. She's never just one thing. Take her relationship with Altan, for instance. It's incredibly complicated. She loves him, lusts after him, fears him, worships him, hates him, is involuntarily bonded with him through their shared Speerly heritage. Kuang never attempts to dilute it. It and Rin is gloriously messy, and I am one hundred percent here for it. Emotions and relationships are very rarely just one shade, and Kuang depicts it so well. My favorite cinnamon roll Kitay is back, too. I’m glad he gets off his high horse a bit. At the end of the first book, he’s rightfully horrified at what Rin did, but comes off as a tad self-righteous. He becomes more morally complicated here, which makes me sad (my pure boy!) but also pleased. They grow up so fast.I hope they're giving out ARCS for the final book because I can't wait another year to find out what happens next.ARC provided by EdelweissMy review of The Poppy WarMy review of The Burning God