The Dragon Republic is deserving of praise for bringing real-world historical events to light for a fresh demographic of readers, however, by the same token, it lacks originality entirely and is inherently predictable if the reader has even a basic education of Chinese Revolutions. The dialogue is puerile and the vast majority of the cast are not so much grey as morally reprehensible, making empathy for their loss and suffering a rare commodity.I’m cringing slightly as I write this. 45 people on my friend’s list have read this and 3 have given it a rating below 4. This is by far the most unpopular opinion I’ve had, apart from my ‘Rhythm of War’ review. So, let me explain myself. You can agree or disagree and we can continue conversing amicably with a slightly salty undertone. This is life, and it’s fine.My first point is, in and of itself, purely observational and didn’t directly affect my rating. In my opinion, this series is not Fantasy. Fantasy, by definition, is that which comes from ones imagination, whereas this series is based, with some truth, on actual historical events. A more accurate genre designation would be ‘Historical Fiction’ with mythological elements. In fact, in 1000 years, if every other account of modern Chinese history were lost and this was the only text remaining, this would likely become Mythology. The names of people and places would all be wrong and the mystical shamanic powers would be a stretch but the general shape of events, however sparse, would be there. *****SPOILERS AHEAD*****Let me clarify. Book 1 was inspired, specifically, by the Second Sino-Japanese War and depicted, with gruesome accuracy, the atrocities committed in the Nanking Massacre. In Book 2, Kuang covers phase 1 of the Chinese Civil War. If anyone has more than a Year 12 education in ‘Chinese Revolutions’ please correct me but this is how I see it. Rin = Mao Zedong (CPC)Vaisra = Chiang Kai-Shek (ROC) First Poppy War = Opium WarsHesperia = Europe (mainly Britain) Nikara = China Mugen = Japan Speer = Taiwan	 There are infinite connections that can be made but given these main few, we can presume that ‘The Dragon Republic’ covered the time in which the alliance between the Chinese Communist Party (Rin) and the Government of the Republic of China (Vaisra) collapsed. By the end of this book, we are poised for the commencement of hostilities between the 2 parties which I would assume will result in Rin gaining control of the mainland and Vaisra, or whoever is left of his government, being forced to retreat to the island of Taiwan or killed. If I know anything about Kuang, they’ll be killed.In addition to this, we have the book’s map which has obvious similarities to the lands bordering the East-China Sea as well as multiple mentions of Sun Tzu’s (Sunzi in Pinyin) ‘Art of War’ throughout books 1 and 2. The first time I saw this, I thought it a cool tip of the hat but now I’m thinking, there are multiple mentions of a book that exists on earth, in a Fantasy book. This is very unusual. Ultimately, the heavy inspiration drawn from real-life events is a double-edged sword. It can be thrilling connecting people, places and events in Kuang’s world with those of our own, but at the same time, it can drag you out of the intended fantastical setting and expose the story as wholly unoriginal and lacking imagination. It certainly did for me.Rin, Rin, Mao… I mean Rin! I feel like she may just take the cake as the most insufferable, piece of shit protagonist I’ve ever read. I defended her character in the first book, claiming that she was morally grey and largely unlikeable but well written. Well, I can’t stand by that anymore. She is written inconsistently and despite efforts by Kuang to demonstrate or, on occasion, even justify the way she thinks or acts, it is impossible for me to empathise with somebody who is completely apathetic to others. If I wanted to know how Mao Zedong, a man responsible for the deaths of anywhere between 20-50 million people, became the monster that he was, I’d go read a biography. I don’t want him as the main protagonist in a “Fantasy” book!Rin is so many things that you don’t want your protagonist to be. She’s hypocritical, contradictory, apathetic, unintelligent and gullible. Her inner-monologue is a never-ending string of non-sensical idiocy and morally devoid ideology. This is getting a bit long but here’s a few key scenes/quotes that really put me off Rin:1.	When they came across a scene of the wreckage caused by Chaghan and Qara breaching the dam in the river and the two are reflecting on what they’ve done. Rin “gleefully” seeks them out and, “[screeching] with laughter”, berates them for what they’ve done, thinking 
“how terribly funny it was that she wasn’t the only one with mass murder on her hands”
.2.	After just a short while ago claiming she ain’t no one’s dog, damn it! Rin claims, “It felt good… to be Vaisra’s weapon and tool”. 
”If she wasn’t making the decisions, then nothing could be her fault.”
3.	Aratsha’s death: She was disappointed because he was “an immensely useful chess piece and now she couldn’t use him anymore.” How are we supposed to care about the already under-developed support cast if Rin doesn’t?!4.	On nearly the 600th page Rin demonstrates that she’s had zero character growth when she is speaking with Daji and thinks to herself, 
 “If she had another chance… She would make the same decision… She would destroy [Mugen] completely and without mercy… And she’d laugh”.
 Ok, so despite supposedly feeling incredible guilt at multiple times throughout the book for committing genocide, we’re gonna settle on, “I’d do it again”? Cool, just checking.5.	
”War on this scale was a number’s game, and she had lives to spare”.
 I mean that’s just pure Mao coming through.In addition to these points, Rin is such a coarse character. Trying to have a civilised discussion with her around would be like trying to talk while someone was using an angle grinder just metres away… And directing the sparks towards you. Eeeeeverything is fuck you, fuck this, you’re a c*$#, she’s a bitch!.... Settle down mate! Moving on, I am le tired.So, there it is, those were the two main reasons this book lost a couple of stars for me and they are very subjective so I can still understand how this book is immensely popular. On top of this, I felt that all support characters from the Cike through to Feylen were still under-developed and the final battle was anti-climactic. The 50 or so pages after the battle were, however, pretty good. I’m still looking forward to the last book in the trilogy and my goal will be to try and put aside what I think I already know and just enjoy it for what it is. Ciao