ARC provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
1. The City of Brass
 | ★★★★★ 
2. The Kingdom of Copper 
 | ★★★★★ 
3. The Empire of Gold
 | ★★★★★
“Not wanting to be destroyed by despair doesn’t make you a coward, Ali. It makes you a survivor.”
It is always a bittersweet feeling when you reach the last sentence of one of your favourite series. The denial that you will not read more about characters you love, characters whose adventures you have been following for a while now. But, at the same time, I am so happy with how S.A. Chakraborty wrapped up this historical fantasy trilogy. The Empire of Gold starts off right where The Kingdom of Copper  left off. After the action-packed ending full of twists of the second book, everyone is picking sides and making hard decisions. I am still in awe of the character development, especially regarding Ali. I have always praised the complexity of these characters through the entire trilogy and this final instalment shows that evolution in a remarkable way.The Persian, Babylonian and Egyptian mythological elements take a step forward, being some of the new creatures introduced in this book essential for the resolution of the plot. Chakraborty has connected the breadcrumbs she has been dropping since The City of Brass in a masterful way, bringing everything full circle. Moreover, although the ins and outs between the different tribes take a back seat in The Empire of Gold, the political strategies are as engrossing and intricate as in the first two books.
“It made it worse, this passing of a barbed baton between women who no matter how clever, how powerful, would always be known by the men to whom they were attached.”
I just love how the author tied everything in this conclusion, even going back to places and people that I did not think we would visit again. It was a beautiful way of saying goodbye to the story and, at the same time, a way of showing us the different paths the main characters might have been taken in other circumstances. The concept of how important is to make our own choices is quite emphasized in this book, as well as the conversations regarding colonialism and regarding how women’s voices have been silenced throughout history.Also, this trilogy has, hands down, one the most beautiful slow burn romances ever. I actually love all the different relationships and dynamics between every single character, but this romance and the complexity of the bond of the Qahtani siblings were my absolutely favourites. Seriously, the portrayal of the different relationships in this trilogy, regardless of its nature, is amazing.Overall, I truly believe The Empire of Gold is a perfect and fitting ending for one of my favourite trilogies. It is the first time I give 5 stars to every single book in a series apart from ASOIAF, so I think that says a lot about how much I love these books. I am going to miss reading about Nahri, Ali, Muntadhir, Jamshid, Hatset, Fiza and Zaynab. Also, that last sentence is literally perfection.
“I do not believe ambitious men who say the only route to peace and prosperity lies in giving them more power—particularly when they do it with lands and people who are not theirs.”
P.S.: I'm not English, so if you see any mistakes let me know so I can correct them, please.Instagram | Twitter | Youtube | Tumblr