Empire of Gold is one of the best conclusion to a series that I've read in a while.This book started just from where Kingdom of Copper ended. There is an abundance of action scenes, magic, great characters and unique plot. After finishing this series I think it's safe to say this is the first of it's kind that I've ever read. There was lots of revelations about Nahri's past and many other things like the marid and ifrits.The entire series is set in a magical city and Egypt, mostly the former. The characters are all coloured and most of them are Muslims, I especially liked the Muslim part, it's a breath of fresh air. The depictions of the clothes and weapons is well done, I loved it.The world building improved tremendously same goes for the writing, just like the previous books this is also written from the perspectives of three characters namely Nahri, Aliazyd and Dara. Dara's POV was depressing at first but it later improved.CharactersNahri still remain my favourite character in this series, she is simply amazing, I love the fact that she tends to make good decisions even in terrible situations. She is a realist to the core. 
“I do not believe ambitious men who say the only route to peace and prosperity lies in giving them more power—particularly when they do it with lands and people who are not theirs.
Aliazyd is an idealist, and pious man. He isn't exactly judgemental like most pious people, he is kind and selfless, I love that about him.Dara was a fool almost throughout the book, for someone that is hundreds of years old he is so foolish, he made so many stupid decisions and his redemption was not good enough.Manizheh is a monster, she made Ghassa look like a saint, to make things worse she thought she was doing the right thing, she was indeed lost. It's actually sad.Muntadair shocked me here, I never thought he had it in him. Jamshid, Zaynab and Fiza are also good characters in this book.PlotThe book began with Ali and Nahri in Egypt, having escaped Daevabad and the murderous Manizheh. Manizheh is ruling with an iron hand and killing everyone who disagrees with her. Magic has disappeared and civil war is brewing, Nahri and Ali have to decide whether or not to go back, we all know which they choose.