I received an E-ARC of the book through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
Actual Rating:
 4.7/5 rounded up to a full 5! If you know me at all you’ll know how much this series means to me. I’ve fallen in love with this world and characters since the first book released and I’ve been waiting desperately – and nervously – for the final book.Now that I’ve read it I can definitely say that it solidifies the trilogy as one of my all time favorite book series ever. The book was filled with everything I could have wanted – and more!What I love most about it is the character development. I was on cloud nine so many times because of these amazing characters. If I loved Alizayd before, I had no idea how much more this book would make me feel for this character! I am just so happy with his journey and the person he grew to be. His storyline was such a joy to read! And then there’s Nahri. I’ve always liked Nahri but I connected to her so much in this book! Her strength, her fears, her vulnerabilities, her triumphs and losses - and everything that got her to this point... you feel all of it with her. Dara also has a rich and complex arc in this book, but it took a while for me to understand him fully. And I didn’t enjoy his chapters as much I did Ali’s and Nahri’s. They were dark and disturbing sometimes (blame Manhizeh for that and even Dara’s perspective which was always in conflict). My friend called his chapters Grimdark - in comparison to the exciting Fantasy and Adventure of Ali and Nahri’s chapters - and I agree. But rest assured, the author put so much care into bringing all three POV characters’ stories to the right place for them. I loved seeing more of Jamshid in this book, and getting to know him a little better! I adore the sibling bonds in this series and the development of that in this book is one of my favorite parts!I just wish there was more of Muntadhir and Zaynab. Though I did really enjoy their scenes! Muntadhir’s sass was at a high in this one, and I loved it! But I wish he had at least one POV chapter because there was one chapter in particular where I really wanted to know what he was feeling and thinking.There was some wonderful slow burn romance in this book that made me SO happy. I don’t want to say too much, but how these two characters are around each other - completely able to be themselves, and the best versions of themselves too - is exactly the kind of romantic development I like to see. Subtle but deep. Slow but so very real. It’s rare to see a depiction of such a healthy love and friendship, especially in a Fantasy book with so much brutality and conflict surrounding the characters. It’s so well done here!Expect more magical surprises, exciting adventure, edge-of-your-seat suspense, shocking reveals, heartwarming romance, friendship, family bonds, heartache, happiness... everything you want in a final book! There wasn’t a single chapter that didn’t pull me in heart and soul! I ended this book with my heart full and my mind filled with thoughts of these characters.I’m going to miss them and Daevabad so much. But I’m glad I can revisit the books and it’ll be a special joy to reread the series knowing I love the ending and where it all leads to!