A Day of Fallen Night is just as epic as The Priory of the Orange Tree but takes a while to get going. This prequel takes place 500 years before the events of The Priory of the Orange Tree. Each of the four geographical regions has its own historical, religious, and political beliefs. All of their beliefs are at odds with each other. There are rumours that the Dreadmount has erupted, spewing forth wyrms and other destructive creatures. The Nameless One has not been a threat for centuries. Now, these creatures are wreaking destruction wherever they land. It’s up to each leader to find the best way to defeat these dreadful beasts before everything lies in ruin. When I read Priory, the story immediately sucked me in, and I felt an instant attachment to nearly every character. I rooted for most of them every step of the way. However, with this book, it took a while for me to become invested in some of the characters’ lives. And there are a lot of characters in this chunky book (although there is a helpful character list at the back). I eventually came to cheer for all the big players and might have even been teary by the end. Wulf, Glorian, Nikeya, and Dumai all have wonderful character arcs. The pacing wasn’t as consistent as Priory, either. In that one, it felt like things were always happening, so the book never seemed slow despite its length. But even though this one had a slow setup, it was totally worth it. Samantha Shannon knows how to hook her readers. The first major twist had me gasping; the story really took off from there. Since this is a prequel, it can be read first or as a standalone. But, I’m glad I read Priory first for the context it provided. This one might have been a tad daunting without having some background on this world. I don’t want this review to sound lukewarm because there were many instances where I was completely hooked and stayed up late to read it. It’s just hard to live up to the expectations set by the first book. Nevertheless, let the wait commence for the next Roots of Chaos novel. Thank you to Bloomsbury Publishing for providing me with physical and digital copies to review. https://booksandwheels.com