Almost 3 months ago I said I would come back "tomorrow" to write a review for this book and it's taken me this long to actually sit down and do it. My bad. 4.5 stars, I LOVE this book and my god what a reading experience it was. Samantha Shannon is a phenomenal epic fantasy writer. The world she builds, the sheer expanse of the story she tells, and the balance of large catastrophic world events with the smallest individual personal life experiences is incredible. If you liked Priory of the Orange Tree, I see no reason why you wouldn't like this book. A Day of Fallen Night is a slower burn than Priory. The world building is even richer and more fleshed out and you spend more time really digging into details and getting a look at the world of Priory as it was 500 years before. There are differences in cultures and beliefs and alliances that will provide fans of Priory a good amount of time to speculate how and when certain changes occur. As another multi-POV story, every single POV had me fully invested and I loved all the characters. You'll find no Niclays' here! (Whose story I appreciated and understood the use of in PRiory, but...we all hated that man). They are rich and distinct, they have compelling stories each of their own seperate from yet complemented by the overarching plot, and at no point did I turn to a new chapter and a new POV with a groan or a sigh just waiting to get back to one I cared more about. And finally - because if I try to talk any less broadly I'll go on forever - the biggest theme of this book that has stuck with me for the last three months is that of Motherhood, which will probably surprise anyone who even vaguely knows me. Motherhood and pregnancy are topics explored with such care and so much purpose in this novel from so many different perspectives. There are characters in this book who love being mothers and everything that comes with it, others who fear it, others who resent the expectation of it, and so many thoughts in between. As someone who is childfree by choice and has known I would be from the earliest I can ever remember having a coherent thought on the matter, A Day of Fallen Night made me feel so seen. I've never seen the way I feel about pregnancy, birth, and motherhood represented so well, and in fact I used a specific passage from this book to explain it to my own mother (who fully accepts and respects my position but struggles sometimes to really understand it) and it shocked her to hear it and made her understand my position in a way she hadn't before. All of which is to say that motherhood and childbearing and the different ways people feel about them are a STRONG theme across this book that's explored so well I still think about it all the time. I'm so in love with this series and I can't wait to see what we get next. Samantha Shannon has mentioned that she has tentative plans for 5 in the Roots of Chaos series (one of which would be a direct sequel to priory tying all the prequels together) and I had a lot of fun speculating what other time periods we might get from this world.