"Most people never find one great love in their life. You are lucky enough to have found two."By the Angel! I'm an emotional wreck, I'll add to the bottom of the review when I you know STOP CRYING! I will never ever stop loving this series. My poor heart. That epilogue, just everything.Oh. My. I remember this book being good. BUT the second time it was just wonderful. I can honestly say a book has never ever made me feel like this has. Another 5 Stars!Completely spoiler free!For the final book in The Infernal Devices series, I have never been so happy. Everything about this was perfect. I laughed, I cried, I cried some more, I had goosebumps, it just overall made me feel something!Will, Jem and Tessa I just love these three so much, I feel like we've been on such a journey, so many ups and downs but we finally made it! How could three people who cared for one anther so much cause one another so much pain? I KNOW RIGHT?! Okay firstly, I love the friendship between all three of them. The fact that Jem is always there for Will whether he is wrong or right. That Will is always there for his Parabatai if he is ill. There is so much love between them both that just makes something so special. I enjoyed that there was no jealousy between the three and that they all loved each other equally. "My Conscience" Will Whispered. "You are my conscience. You have ever been James Carstairs" Moving on, the relationship between Jem and Tessa and Will and Tessa. On my first read I was always Will, I still am. However I can now say I do have a soft spot in the shape of Jem. I realised how much he cares for Tessa and Will. I loved how he treated Tessa and always tried to do something special for her. Whereas Will he loves her fiercely and I wish we'd had the chance to see it a lot more! I need more of all three of them please.Charlotte and Henry once again, such lovable characters, I'm still laughing about the middle name! Charlotte is the mother type, and I think a role needed to be set in this! I love how she is head strong and does what she believes is right. Henry is so supportive and I love his little quirks. I think the relationship between these two in this book is so much more than what it was. They both know how they truly feel and it is honestly so heartwarming reading about them both together. I can't stop picturing Henry as this man with ginger hair with explosions all around him! At times I felt so sorry for Charlotte, simply for the fact that it is very much a "mans world" however she is who she is and she stood her ground!Gideon, Gabriel, Sophie and Cecy ahhhhhh. How do I keep this so I don't go into full on babble mode? Okay firstly I loved the pairings of these. The moment that Sophie realised about them Scones. I couldn't cope from laughing! I love how Gideon is the calm to the storm and is so reasoning and so gentle. Especially with Sophie. Sophie makes me slightly weak with how much I like her as a character! Gabriels relationship with Cecy was actually adorable, I couldn't remember whether or not I liked him. But yeah... I guess he's not so bad! There were so many funny moments with this group and I can't even begin to name them all. I don't think I've ever liked so many characters!What I liked?- I loved the relationship building between the Lightwormwoods, and how Will introduced Gabriel. It was always something that amused me throughout even when I was on the verge of tears.- "Fathers a worm" I was howling with laughter for a good 10 minutes!- The fact that Cecy knows exactly how to wind Will up, it just makes me laugh how he does it for everyone else, but when it's on him he just can't handle it!- I adored that Magnus was in this way more than he previously was, the fact that Will treated him as an equal and thanked him. Magnus's response to that was just so adorable!- Just the whole basis of the storytelling, it's just so beautiful!- Charlotte and Henry's love for one another, I just love how they are so supportive of one another when in reality it doesn't seem like they are supported my others.- When he finds her and confessed all!- How evil Mortmain was! I always love to hate someone!- SO MANY QUOTES, ALL OF THE SWOONING- I'm sorry but that epilogue is one of my favourite things ever I cry and I cry each time. I don't know why I do it to myself. You get a peak into what has happened over the years, I couldn't even explain why. Well I could but you know... Spoilers! It honestly broke my heart (but in a lovely way)What I didn't like?- WHY IS IT ONLY 3 BOOKS, I NEED MORE WILL!The Infernal Devices are without pity.The Infernal Devices are without regret.The Infernal Devices are without number.The Infernal Devices will never stop comingI'm sad that it's over until my next re-read, but I have loved every moment! I'm also sorry for my numerous updates, I just can't help myself when it comes to The Infernal Devices!"Life is a book, and there are a thousand pages I have not yet read."———-08.07.18 After thoughts of things I liked/picked up- Seeing the back story of when Jem and Will first met- I loved seeing a lot more of Gabriel and understanding why he is like he is, not only that but how he and Cecy interact- Gideons protectiveness towards the people he cares for- Gabriel and Gideons letters are HILARIOUS. Speaking of letters, I loved all of the letters throughout, we got to see a look in to how the corresponded and different perspectives from other characters.- The yin fen fire moment ruined me!-JEM WRITING FOR TESSA... my heart!- The distractions from Jem for Will - Will's interactions with Magnus, he calls him when he needs to talk, one helps the other, they treat each other as equals- So many think I picked up, The necklace, the star birthmark and Cortana!- Back stories, I say no more.- Gabriel and Gideon can literally not hold their tongues and blurt everything out- My Will... My Tessa- So many people getting their just desserts :) :) :) - The last fight, you know- Charlotte is one of my favourite female characters, because of the time frame this was set in, she wasn't seen as an equal. To see her character grow from strength to strength and do what is right even though others thought she couldn't I just loved it- Will reading to Tessa in a time of need- Any mention of worms- I've said it earlier, and I'll say it again. That epilogue. Destroyed for ever.————29.07.2020It never gets easier reading this series, I think it just seems to get harder, after multiple rereads I’ve become so attached to these characters and I love them all as though they are very close friends. It brings me so much happiness, I laugh, I cry, I scream, I cry a lot more, but there is no doubt as to why this is my favourite series.Each re-read I notice something new and my love for everyone just intensifies even more, I think particularly after finishing Chain of Gold earlier this year you notice some super subtle things and the love they all have for each other.I’ve read all of the Shadowhunter books, and I don’t think there is a love as fierce and passionate as Will, Jem and Tessa. I genuinely don’t say this with bias but when they describe their feelings love just emanates from the pages. I know in other books there’s a lot of love between other characters but I just think this is so so special.I cannot stress this enough, I will forever thank this series in particular, it brought me back into reading, this is the whole reason I joined Goodreads and wanted to read more because this book means so much. As cheesy as this sounds every time I read it, it’s like returning home, I love it so so much. Now I want to read Chain of Gold and TMI and TDA but my heart needs a break because I legit cried for 40 minutes straight over the epilogue, calmed myself down and burst into tears all over again.Why do I put myself through that epilogue EVERY TIME.Fun fact before I finish... the first time I read (and finished) this series I was on a bus, and I was just sat there sobbing my heart out with people looking at me in absolute distress over it!Can’t wait to re-read this next year (or the year after) and cry all over again!----------17.08.2022Still perfection. I love them all so much. The End.---------All Cassandra Clare Reviews:The Infernal DevicesClockwork Angel - 5 StarsClockwork Prince - 5 StarsClockwork Princess - 5 StarsThe Infernal Devices (Manga) Reviews:Clockwork Angel - 5 StarsClockwork Prince - 5 StarsClockwork Princess - 5 StarsThe Last HoursChain of Gold - 4 StarsChain of Iron - 5 StarsChain of Thorns - 4 StarsThe Mortal InstrumentsCity of Bones - 5 StarsCity of Ashes - 4 StarsCity of Glass - 4 StarsCity of Fallen Angels - 2 StarsCity of Lost Souls - 3 StarsCity of Heavenly Fire - 4 StarsThe Eldest CursesThe Red Scrolls of Magic - 3 StarsThe Dark ArtificesLady Midnight - 5 StarsLord of Shadows - 5 StarsQueen of Air and Darkness - 5 Stars