Team Will? Team Jem? Who cares.EVERYBODY WINS! This book was undeniably flawed, but you will definitely get what you came for:Love. There's so much love that sometimes you're like:orWhat I liked:- circular ending. It ends the same way it began.- the description of Tessa and Will's life together, and his eventual death.-"Those of you who are mortal, you burn so fiercely."-“Well, then, since you say there will be another life for me, let us both pray I do not make as colossal a mess of it as I have this one.” -Will-Jem-Gigantic worms-Did I mention that I loved the ending?What I didn't like:-Too much love (not everyone needs to find a soul mate)-Trying-too-hard syndrome in terms of old-fashioned English (if you have read some books from the time, you will notice that Clare is definitely milking the properness)In the end, it was strong finish to a good series and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it.By the way, here's my pre-review:WHO WILL IT BE?????Wouldn't you pay a thousand JEMS to know. ...That awful pun was almost as groan-inducing as the love triangle itself. 01/01/12I was extremely bored and alone on New Year's Eve so I read this review and groaned again (partly because of my pun, partly because I was remembering the love triangle and Jem's marriage proposal) and I decided to rant about it. See below!**Now with mini BONUS rant!**So obviously we know that Tessa and Will will end up together. I mean c'mon lady-- could you make it any more predictable? Part of the problem is that everyone (read: all prepubescent twihard fangirls) WANTS WillTessa and so Ms Clare will grant their wishes and fulfill their fantasies. But dare I ask the question; Why is Jem the inferior love interest?*millions of fan girls give me the evil eye*Okay, there is the problem of Will's curse and blah blah blah he's such a poor unfortunate soul (hey isn't that a song from the little mermaid?) Freaky isn't it? How she can turn people into little slimy things? Who knows, maybe one day she'll turn all twilight fans to mush right before my eyes OR take away Bella's voice so that she can't whine anymore? Ahhh the possibilities are endless.....Ooops. Sorry. Where was I?Oh right. Will's "curse".SOO--- HEARTBROKEN and DEVASTATED Will has to push Tessa away because he lurves her too freaking much because of said "curse".. BUT ON THE OTHER HAND-- Jem loves her too and is also suffering AND he seems so much sexier (I have to begrudgingly admit that the romance is written very well) so how is it fair that Tessa always loves Will more? It isn't fair.YA isn't fair.LIFE isn't fair.P.S. NO HATE INTENDED! I love these books. I just hate love triangles on principle.