Tiny manifestations of human social models One of the earliest forms of satire, just as Twains Yankee and Cervantes Don Quichote, but not that goodhttps://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...That´s simply because Swift isn´t such a talented, solid writer as Cervantes and not as ingenious as Twain. Swift tries to  Make some clever allegories about the stupidity of imbalanced power structuresAnd yes, it´s witty and somewhat deep, but it´s just not really absorbing because Swift hasn´t the same intuition and talent for creative writing, leading to permanently losing focus while reading. What is interesting is the  Description of different cultures of that timeI didn´t dig that deep, but history nerds will definitively find interesting connections and be able to compare and drivel for hours. As with many century old classics, a bit of racism and discrimination can´t be kept out of the mix, but it´s modest in comparision to other works like for instance the terrible Robinson Crusoe. All in all, it´s a short, not as exhausting work as the mentioned Don Quichote and can rather be seen as an average, entertaining short story collection with one, uniting character. I´ve seen that Swift has  Written some other satirical stuffThat hugely varies in quality and thereby ratings. Sadly it´s kind of tricky to choose the good ones, but no matter how good or bad the stuff is, it shows the immense power of satire, the most important way to criticize and open minds. Because people don´t like being bored by proselytizing progressive forces, no matter how true, right, and good their intentions are, they prefer Subtle subtext behind the seemingly trivial and superficial satireThat´s what the really good high class comedy does, hiding the message of being aware of the malfunctionings and grievances of societies by ridiculing the ones causing them. Swift does this far too direct in the reader´s face and kills many subtilities that way. That´s also the reason why the censors of the time immediately recognized the messages and exterminated everything that was deemed too hot and critical, reducing the old editions of the work to a children´s book after having eliminated everything that could get the rulers angry. Because of the rarity of witty classic writing and because it´s not that long and easy to consume it´s still no bad choice for skimming and scanning action, especially if one is interested in the theory of humor and how traditions, nationalism, patriotism, sociology, etc yada yada yada, of that time worked. Tropes show how literature is conceptualized and created and which mixture of elements makes works and genres unique: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.ph...