“If you go chasing your freedom your fate will only follow you there and force you back.”Alice doesn't remember how she got here or what sent her here, all she knows is that she's a patient in an insane asylum and the voice of the person next to her room.Even when he tells her crazy things, she doesn't have any choice but to listen to him. He's the only person that talks to her and she isn't even sure that he's a person.That is until the asylum is up in flames and with the help from him she flees from it.But he keeps talking about a Jabberwock and the need to kill him. He also knows where to go and what to do even if he doesn't has any recollection of how he knows.In the journey they're taking to kill the Jabberwock, Alice starts remembering thing too. She remembers a man with white gloves that chased her.She soon realizes that her visions are memories and that there is a reason she is the one to kill the Jabberock, while she takes a dangerous journey to her past.I was promised a creepy Alice retelling and I kinda feel cheated.Don't get me wrong, the story is bizare and there are some parts that are just sick and twisted but it still wasn't the "horror" story that I was anticipating. To be fair, I should start off saying that I was in a reading slump while powering through this book so this could a big factor that I didn't like it. The story did have some creepy aspects and I would want to be caught dead in the World this takes place but it's written purposely to shock you more than anything else.It is monstrous and disgusting and it did end up freaking me out because of it, but that's were the creepiness ends.But be warned, this book does contains explicit writing that contains abuse, rape, humanoid creatures that eat people, killing and other things. I honestly didn't care at all about the characters. All I wanted to see was the White Rabbit and what happened between him and Alice but the ending was one of the most anticlimatic endings I've ever read.We go through the book having the main villain be the White Rabbit only for him to be weak and dying. His death was just to easy.As was the Jabberwocks capture.All she had to do was imagine him in a jar? Isn't he supposed to be the greates dark Wizard that everyone was terrified of?I knew he wasn't Lord Voldemort but I expected more.