This could have been amazing. It had so many great elements--I see why so many found it cool. But it needed to slow the eff down! We jumped around constantly from plot point to plot point, revelation to conflict in a scene with no time to orient or attach to anything. A shame, because I think there was a lot here that I would have fallen in love with if it had been built a little more.CONTENT WARNING (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics):  medical experimentation, coercion of will, PTSD, torture, war, body horror, loss of children, loss of spouse, mental illness/asylums, slavery, casual homophobia, mention of sexual assault. The cool things:-The premise. There's so much tension and pressure in this world from all sides, it's a great place to watch things fall apart.-The romance. Our MC has adorable twitterpation every time he's around the love interest. Very Colin Firth. I never like the romance, but I thought their flirtation was adorable.-The visuals. All of the things we have described are really neat and exciting to think about.Things that I stumbled over:-Inconsistency. There were several things we were told or explained that either didn't happen, happened contrary to the earlier explanation, or were just mis-remembered by the author and not caught in editing.-Characters. I didn't know any of them. None were fleshed out enough that I got a sense of their mettle, aside from the MC who vacillated from broken to fierce so often I couldn't keep up with his emotional state.-Magic. It was very handwavy, which I would have been fine with except that part of the story is the MC learning how to use his magic, and the explanation of how that came about was also very handwavy. I know, magic is irritating to write because by definition it breaks natural laws, but if you're going to try to explain it, it better stand up to scrutiny.-Pacing. We were all over the place. It started out as a mystery with a ramp up and we just kept adding components. This means it moved very quickly, but there was no anticipation. This is a zipline, not a roller coaster. To create tension, the author sacrificed story beats, which means we got the adrenaline rush, but not the emotional investment.-Inorganic plot progression. Related to the pacing, to keep things "exciting" there isn't flow to the story. Things just keep happening. No one figures anything out, there are no catalysts except that "it's time" in the story. There's a lot of quantum leaps in reasoning, a lot of bad guys popping out of shadows and the like which starts sawing away at my suspension of disbelief.-Writing. Lots of redundancies, backtracks, telling but not showing (except for the romance) and I think the part that stood out most is the times that the tone would break. This is a gas lamp fantasy that uses pseudo-Victorian modes of address, and every now and then we'd fall spectacularly out of that era into the modern. Again, it's fantasy, we can do whatever we want with it, but if 80% of a book is one time period and 20% is another, it's a bit abrasive.In short, where the F*** was the editor? This is a great story, and they published a draft. Someone tell her this needed to be one plot line less complicated, about 10,000 words longer and smooth out the bumps. This would have been stellar with a bit more time investment. I don't know that I intend to continue--the interesting things were all undone in this book and the plot was fully satisfied, so aside from the romance, I'm not sure what would compel me to continue on. I have recommended it to folks who like neat worlds and sweet LGBTQIA moments, which this has aplenty.