Disclaimer: I received an ARC of this book from my place of employment.2.5? Maybe?My main problem with this is that it reads like fan fiction (I'm saying this as someone who has read more 100k+ fics than I could possibly count). When you start reading a fic, you already know who the characters are, so the author only has to give minimal development of their personalities and motivations, as well as the world they live in, because it's assumed that you already know. I feel like that's what happened with this book.Miles is the only character who feels mostly fleshed out, and even that is questionable at times. Tristan is almost a nonentity - he's very pretty and very attractive, and is also basically a god, and...that's it. Their romance is completely told instead of shown, they really don't interact all that much apart from eating a lot and talking about the mystery they're solving, yet they're getting married at the end of the book?? Whaa? Slow down, don't get married if you don't even know his favorite color yet! Cripes.Grace is kind of the same, which makes me sad, because I saw reviews about brother/sister relationships and was really excited for that part of the story. But all she really does is annoy Miles and you know, literally enslave him to her will and repeatedly betray him to their scary father (whom I couldn't help but picture as Uther Pendragon for some reason?). I hope that she has the opportunity to take a better role in the next book(s).I also really want to know more about how the whole system of...governance, or whatever you want to call it, works. It's referenced so casually throughout the book, but I think its seeming complexity warrants a much more in-depth explanation, considering how important it is to Miles and his family's story, and ultimately, Aeland, Laneer, and the Amaranthines. Like, we got such an informative explanation of how bike drafts work, but not what's up with the Invisibles and the Royal Knights and whatnot.So: less dialogue and descriptions of food and clothing; more exposition; stronger interactions between the characters - this would have made a huge difference.All that being said, I did feel compelled to finish the book in the end, which says something. By the last 100 pages or so, I didn't want to put the book down until I found out what happened, dammit.I think the system of magic is interesting and (to my knowledge, anyway) unique, so I'd like to read more about it. In general, this sort of Edwardian/WWI-era setting is one of my favorites, plus magic? I always want to see more in this genre!The main bit of the plot - the mystery surrounding Nick Elliott's death and the overarching war with Laneer - was fascinating, and I wish that it had been more of the focus (rather than meandering down paths about Miles's family and his inexplicable romance quite so often). The magical PTSD/shell-shock parallel was fantastically done. I had no idea that the "disease" was going to be necromancy in the end, and that is awesome - I really wish the conclusion of that (are they really going to attack the Queen?) would have been included in this first volume. And the asylums and the class warfare they imply? Yes please, tell me more.And even though I wasn't convinced by this particular romance, I am overjoyed to read an LGBT book that just...lets it happen. It's a feature, not the genre, the way romance is in most other books. We need more of this. LGBT fantasy should be a big thing, okay. In real books, not just fan fiction. (I just realized if you include fan fiction, that is quite possibility my second most-read genre.)