A new BookTube Video is Up all about whether you should buy, borrow or burn 2020 YA books! Let me know what you think! The Written Review Stories always begin the same way. There was and there was not. There is a possibility in those words, the chance for hope or despair.Soraya is a princess but she has spent her life in fairytales and hidden away because of her deepest, darkest secret. ...the div cursed her firstborn daughter, making her poisonous, so that anyone who touched her would die.After a lifetime without touch, Soraya finds herself yearning ever-more for someone - anyone - to break her isolation.When a div (demon) is taken into the dungeons, she finally realizes that she might have a chance to learn more about her curse and possibly break free...but she knows demons lie. Is she willing to risk it all for a chance at freedom?"Do you see now why I recognized you? You're my favorite story. I feel like I've known you for a long time."First of all - GORGEOUS cover on this one. I absolutely LOVED the color scheme, the roses, thorns and snakes. Really eye-catching.I loved the concept of this book - the poisoned princess, the demon-in-the-dungeon, and the mysterious stranger who loves her. The three major characters played well off of each other and had a pretty good balance between the three of them. There were a few moments that felt a bit predictable but overall I was entertained by the direction of the book.The plot was interesting but it was missing a little sparkle. I think it's because we spend a lot of time inside or hiding, which is confining to astory.The pacing felt a bit slow as Soraya waffled about whether she should take a plunge or stay in safety (which got...a little annoying after a bit) but once she finally made up her mind, the plot took off like a rocket.All in all, I quite liked this one and I'm looking forward to what the author writes next!With thanks to Netgalley, Flatiron Books and Melissa Bashardoust for sending me a free copy in exchange for an honest reviewYouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads