9 April 2020: $1.99 on KindleFull disclosure: I only made it through 48% of this book.ETA: Anyone that wants to spoil me on all things Lord Nightshade, please do - I'm so incredibly curious about him, but I just can't force myself through anymore of the book in order to get such small moments/knowledge of him.ETA2: Or if there's a book that I should pick up later in the series where things start to become more smoothly written and I can skip the first-(several)-book(s)-syndrome....I've been looking forward to diving into this series for years, years, and when I finally did I am left with nothing but disappointment. You may ask why it's taken me so long to read it if I'd been so looking forward to it.Fair enough. As excited as I get about books, I sometimes am too scared to start, too. Especially when they're a part of a series, a long series, and a much beloved series, at that. So it took a group buddy read planned for October to get me to start this. But I was excited! Here was the push I needed to start my dive into this (apparently) amazing world.Unfortunately, I hit a brick wall. Maybe it's just me, I don't know. But I crashed up against bad storytelling, bad characterization, and bad writing. Honestly, that I managed to make it nearly half-way through is a bit of a miracle considering how frustrated I was the entire time I was reading - and it did take me nearly a whole month to make it this far. In the time I took me to read half of this book, I've started and finished twelve other books.Apparently, pure stubbornness kept me reading long past the time for me to quit. Most of that obstinance came from the fact that I was sure, absolutely sure, that if I could just make it past the first-book-syndrome thing Cast in Shadow had going on, I'd be rewarded beyond measure. There's a good story, a good world, in here somewhere, dying to get out. I can sense it just beyond all the not-telling, flat characters, and confusing (or non-existant) descriptions.But that's the problem. It's too far out of reach. I spent the entirety of my time reading this novel screaming for someone to just tell Kaylin something as it related to her. And everything in this book relates to her somehow, but guess who doesn't know anything. Kaylin. Yup. Exactly. Everyone else knows these important things that will (apparently) affect her life greatly, but no one thinks Kaylin needs to know. And what's worse? Kaylin doesn't EVER demand to know! I mean, why should she? It's just her life. *deep breath*If that weren't bad enough, I still don't get this world. I don't even understand enough to give a confusing idea of what it's about. Seriously ..... I've been trying to get it. I've read and re-read passages in an attempt to understand. I don't get the heirarchy, I don't get the structure, I don't get the rules, I don't understand any of it!!And I've got nothing to say about the characters because they're all about as flat as a piece of cardboard. Kaylin's alternatively kick-ass, healer, and damsel. Whatever the moment calls for. Everyone else, except perhaps Nightshade, I just don't care about. I don't even really care about Kaylin if she can't be bothered to care about herself either.So, maybe it's me. I don't know. Honestly, I don't care. I can't go any further.Review also available at The Book Eaters7 November 2015: $0.99 on Kindle17 March 2015: Still $1.9915 December 2014: $2.99 on Kindle10/1/2012: Just $2.99 on Kindle