Latest BookTube Video is up - a totally serious take on writing Young Adult Lit! 
The Written Review
: “Happy Hunger Games! And may the odds be ever in your favor.”
Every year, Panem (post-apacolyptic North America) hosts a Hunger Games involving one female and one male representative from each of its twelve districts to fight to the death. All of the Districts of Panem must watch the Games as a form of yearly "entertainment" when in actuality, it's a power play put on by the Capitol (the wealthiest of the districts).
For there to be betrayal, there would have to have been trust first.
The Capitol uses the Games as a way to demonstrate the sheer helplessness of the other Districts and to keep the population cowed and in fear.When Katniss's sister (twelve-year-old Prim) is chosen as this year's competitor, Katniss volunteers to take her place. Peeta, a boy from the "richer" side of District 12 is chosen as the male representative.
I'm more than just a piece in their Games.
Soon, she and Peeta are whisked away to the Capitol - a place of incredible wealth and heartbreaking cruelity. And while Katniss has sworn to come back to her sister, she really has to wonder, what will be left of her if she returns.
“Here's some advice. Stay alive.” 
Honestly, this was the best apocalyptic YA teen novel I've read this year.To be fair, this was one of the very first YA series I read, so every time I re-read it, I am just overwhelmed with nostalgia.But, when I take off my rose-tinted glasses, I still think it's a pretty solid series.The characters are really well-done.  I love how Katniss's motivation is both pure and ruthlessness - and her personality isn't tainted with over-the-top self-sacrificing eyerollingly awful simpering mess that I see in quite a few of the newer YA series. Katniss's love for her sister humanized her otherwise stiff character. Her pride and will to survive energized the novel and kept me absolutely hooked. I appreciate that the smidge of romance  does not overpower the novel. Finally, a YA novel that plot doesn't solely hang on a love triangle - I love that it's more of a survivalist story. Overall, really pleased with this novel - cannot wait to reread the rest!Audiobook CommentsRead by Carolyn McCormick and she gave life to Katniss! Loved the audio.And here's another booktube video!:
 If you've ever wondered which literary world would be the best to live in, wonder no longer, cause there's a BookTube Video to answer that!YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads