4.5 stars. The 5-star rating is just within grasp based on the promising enfolding of events in this worthy sequel to The Promise of Blood. This is a good example of how a sequel leading into the final book of a series should be written. There was no unnecessary padding, plodding or diversion from pre-established plots from the previous book. It did not suffer from what is termed as middle-book syndrome; even though it did feel like a middle-book albeit one that dexterously bridges the beginning of the story to its denouement, setting the scenes to a potentially awesome climax in the finale. The solid development of both the characters and plot from the perspective of the same 4 main characters from the first book enables the reader to further their investment in their individual storyline as well as greater appreciate the bigger picture. I continued to enjoy both Tamas’ and Taniel’s POVs significantly. Although the latter gave me a headache with his wallowing in self-pity in the earlier chapters, his relationship with Ka-poel was intriguing and touching. The political / investigative spin of the story via Adamat did not engage me as much initially but eventually captured my attention as it grew in intensity. That leaves the sole female POV in this series so far and although Nila does not appear very often, her parts provide some perspective of the consequences of the major events on the common folk. Well, turns out she is not so common after all.I need to make special mention of a couple of non-POV characters, namely Mihali and Olem, both whom I rank as amongst my favourite characters of this series. Olem, a bodyguard of Tamas, has some of the best, though laconic, lines in this book. Tamas looked back out across the city. “Sometimes I feel like pestilence.”“That argument,” Olem said after a moment’s consideration, “could be made.”“You make me feel so much better.”“I try, sir.”As for dear Mihali, let’s just say I wish I have one of him in my life. He is a gem and that’s all I can say about him. Recommended, and not just for fans of epic or high fantasy as there is a good military story being told here.