Holy shit, holy shit, holy shit. This is one of the best if not THE best second book in a trilogy I have ever read. Second book syndrome is not a problem here let me tell you. I loved Promise of Blood and thought it was a cracking 5 star read. It’s sequel The Crimson Campaign absolutely blew book one out of the water. This was outstanding!!! It out did book one in almost every single way and did it so well. I’m actually enthralled. I don’t want to dig into the plot too much as this is a sequel and all so I’ll keep it brief. The coup that Tamas started at the beginning of book one is now a war. We follow about 4 different POV’s which all bring a different element to the story. This book is about loyalty, family, war, religion and power. The magic systems continue to impress me in there complexities. My only gripe in terms of the magic systems (mainly the privileged type) is the lack of limitations. The characters can pull off some ridiculous feats with their magic. Tamas and Taniel’s POV offers us the military and warfare based plot lines. Both are fighting the war but in completely different ways. Adamat’s POV offers the family oriented man who will go to any lengths to protect his family. I had reservations about him in book one, but his characterisation in this book showed me the strength of his morals and his dedication to his family. The forth POV is Nila, we don’t actually get many chapters from her perspective but I’m looking forward to seeing her grow, especially with the developments towards the end of this novel. Very interesting indeed. The battles and war scenes completely captured my imagination. The author clearly know his shit. The battle plans, formations and strategy were all so well described and easy for the reader to understand whilst maintaining a complexity. They were so tense, my heart was literally pounding whilst reading those scenes. I felt in the midst of the battle, as if the fighting was going on all around me. The stakes are very high in this book. As soon as our characters rest to catch their breath another challenge comes from behind. It was exhausting in a way. You feel as much strain as the characters which I think just goes to show the quality of the writing. Speaking of quality. These damn characters!!! I love them. I freaking love them. I feel like I gushed about them in my review for book one. Honestly my feelings have only gotten stronger. I really felt for Tamas in this one. He really goes through a lot in this book. Not just physically but emotionally too. He is losing everything slowly and is realising that he is getting old. He’s facing each of his battles with a soldiers view of going out in the glory of a battle. He is getting reckless in some regard and let’s his anger get the better of him on a few occasions. You can see where Taniel gets it from. Ahh Taniel. His POV is my favourite and I adore him. Ka-poel is absolutely outstanding in this book. Her character is so interesting and has such depth. Especially considering she is mute. I swear if Taniel doesn’t marry her then I will. Another absolute gem of a character in this book was Bo. Be still my heart. I didn’t think much of him in book one but now... he is phenomenal. Seriously, his flirting and power is great and made this book even better. I can’t believe that the final book is upon me. I know I’ve been reading this series for like a week, but I’m so attached to these characters and so invested in this world. I’m absolutely terrified at the thought of what is to come. I have no clue as to how it’s going to end and I feel like shrouding my heart in armor. But somehow I don’t think that will be enough.