It appears I am the disgruntled minority. Beware! This review is sponsored by letter B. Actually, B&B. No, not like in Bed & Breakfast. It's not a one-nighter novel. And assuming I'd take it to bed with me, I would not like to spend the morning with it. B&B as in brutishly boring. Crimson Campaign is a book of skimming quality. That's right, you can read every third page and still follow the plot without any problems. In fact, you wouldn't even miss crucial details. Worse, if you read Promise of Blood, you can predict most of what is spread over +500 pages with alarming accuracy.Why is that? Firstly, not much happens. "I feel thin, sort of stretched, like butter scraped over too much bread," said Bilbo Baggins famously. Crimson Campaign could concur "My sentiments exactly!"Secondly, what happens does not come as a surprise. We have three main lines again: Tamas, Taniel, and Adamat. I do apologise to those readers who did not see it coming but it is quite obvious that all of them must succeed in their missions and therefore must survive. Consequently, Tamas marching through Kez is a question of how not whether, Adamat pursuing Lord Vetas needs to unearth new intrigues in order to propel the plot, and Taniel flouncing about the frontline in an attempt of character breakthrough (I want to be more than my Father's son and a killing machine) and development (I don't know what I'm supposed to be) must survive, otherwise the whole thing falls apart.Thirdly, the surprises that do occur, come about not because of a clever design, but because Mr McClellan, like so many other writers, falls into the omnipotence trap. He follows the "I-am-the-author-therefore-I-can-do-it". And so there is no limits to convenient miracles. Aliens could land if it were to save the day... wait, they actually landed in the previous instalment. Why then should anyone bat an eyelash that Ka-poel happens to be an indescribably potent mage with powers equal to that of a 'god'? A humble laundress turns out to be more than a Privileged or a Predeii? Tamas having an ex-lover in foreign city just when he needs one? Why not? Well, maybe because it might leave your book with bad reviews.What makes Crimson Campaign worth reading? Two things: Tamas and Bo. Nothing more, nothing less. The military brilliance of the former and the admirable out-of-the-box quality of the latter save the book from standing on my shelf of shame. Another half star for Mihali and Kresimir. The concept of deities in this universe is interesting, but murky and ignores about a myriad of questions begging for answers. It's like Mr McClellan is afraid to look them in the eye. More, the pity.Also in the series: 1. Three stars for the Promise of Blood3. One star and shame eternal for The Autumn Republic