4.5 Stars The Crimson Campaign is a brilliant follow-up to Brian McClellan's promising debut Promise of Blood. In only his second full-length novel (having also released a number of cool short stories set in this universe) McClellan produces another fast paced story with a complex plot, deep, sympathetic characters and the same intriguing magic system. He also improves on many of the features of his previous book while managing to avoid ‘middle book syndrome’ where the second book in a trilogy is a weak link. The plot of this book again follows (and is greatly influenced and often driven by) the characters introduced in PoB: Field Marshal Tamas, the brilliant commander who masterminded the bloody coup that removed the corrupt nobility from power and who is now fighting for his nation's very survival. Taniel 'Two-shot', the deadly sniper and war hero and Tamas' estranged son. Adamat, the honourable detective pushed to the brink in his desperation to rescue his kidnapped family. And Nila, the former laundress who needs to harness all of her courage and guile to protect the little boy who could be heir to the throne. With an original and interesting magic system already established in PoB this book spends less time examining it and doesn't expand on it in any major ways. The weak world-building of the first book (that was improved somewhat by the novellas) was also less in-focus here and was thus less of an impediment to enjoying the story. After struggling with the Adamat sections in PoB I was surprised at how compelling and intense his parts were here from the very start. In the previous book I found him to be a boring and predictable 'inspector' character and thought that the kidnapping of his family was a clichéd plot point (I was half expecting them to be tied to some train tracks in this one). While a principled detective becoming more and more ruthless in his desperation to find his family is a frequently used plot-point it was executed brilliantly here. From the first scene Adamat's story was fast-paced and compelling with several complex schemes interweaving throughout his arc and a great cast of supporting characters (Bo, SouSmith, Faye). My only complaint was that after a climactic denouement halfway through the book his arc became less complex and the pace slowed somewhat. That being said it was still compelling; more so than any part of his arc in the first book.Taniel's storyline started out weakly with several sections of Taniel wallowing in introspective self pity for no apparent reason. However once he got back in the action it immediately became engaging again. Taniel provided the most intense action scenes of the book and his interactions with Ka-Poel were awesome, in turns funny and touching. However his on-going conflict with the Adran generals was frustrating, with a great deal of stupidity and stubbornness on both sides. I also really enjoyed the exploration of how his perceptions of Tamas differed from the man himself. Taniel frequently refers to his father as cold and unloving towards him and yet in Tamas’ sections we see how untrue that is. Hopefully this intriguing dynamic between two of the series' most important characters will be explored more in the next book.Tamas' storyline was a gripping account of a desperate military campaign deep behind enemy lines. This storyline has been compared frequently to the 'Chain of Dogs' in Deadhouse Gates, however I didn't find it to be too similar. While this storyline didn't examine the human tragedy of war as painstakingly or have as much gut-wrenching emotional impact it provided a more focused account of a military campaign filled with engaging and believable insights into the struggles of commanding such a massive operation. In this storyline I especially loved the examination of the impact logistics had on the campaign. While often ignored in fantasy (and 'pop history' books) in favour of more 'epic' accounts of battles, logistics were the most important factor in determining the success of any army throughout the ages. While it would have been easy to dismiss logistics as a boring side-note McCellan manages to make it one of the most integral and interesting parts of the storyline. Tamas’ struggles with logistics were especially effective as a subtle reminder of how desperate and perilous the campaign was and it was especially cool to see how logistics was so crucial in deciding when and where a battle took place.  The climax to Tamas' arc was also brilliant with the vivid and brutal battle in the rain and the sudden death of Nicklaus robbing Tamas of his vengeance and showing the futility of revenge. Probably my biggest complaint about this book was the absence of strong, important female characters. Nila was the only female POV and her sections were much less frequent and less important than the 3 male POV's. Vlora. Ugh, Vlora. Grinds teeth in frustration*. I had high hopes that Vlora would step up in this one, having been an intriguing presence in the background of PoB. However I ultimately found her to be an extremely frustrating character. Her explanation for why she cheated on Taniel, her fiancée and best friend since childhood, was moronic and her repeated displays of disrespect for Tamas (her commanding officer on an incredibly dangerous and tense military operation) were immature and childish.  Her affair with Olem was also really uncool. In order to show Tamas how genuinely sorry she was for betraying his (not to mention Taniel's) trust after he adopted her as a lonely, orphaned child and treated her like family… she started sleeping with the one guy in an army of 10,000 who was the closest to Tamas. That whole situation also made me lose a lot of respect for Olem who was previously one of my favourite secondary characters. Tamas' allowed Olem to smoke, drink and talk back on duty and generally treated him more like a friend than a soldier under his command. In return Olem slept with Tamas' adopted daughter behind his back and then started stirring up drama during a dangerous mission behind enemy lines. Bros b4 hos m8.  While Ka-Poel was awesome (obvs) we still didn't get any new insight into her background or motivations and her role in the story was still limited to being Taniel's 'savage' sidekick and possible love interest. Overall this was a really enjoyable read with a fast-paced, complex plot and sympathetic characters with a lot of depth. Following up an extremely promising debut and skilfully avoided falling into 'second book syndrome', McClellan is obviously a great young author and I'm definitely psyched to read The Autumn Republic.