4.5 stars
“The hounds at our heels will soon know we are lions.”
The Crimson Campaign was better in almost every way compared to its predecessor. All those problems I had with the character development? That’s gone. Those problems with the pace? That’s totally gone. I wasn't bored and remained almost 100% locked in throughout this entire book, which is absolutely incredible because I have the attention span of a goldfish, so I am amazed. One of the most important parts of a book to me are the characters, something I think this book excelled at. We’re still following T Double (Tamas + Taniel), Adamat and Nila as they deal with the revolution that’s now become an all-out war, and I found all their POVs, besides Nila’s, to be 10x as engaging as before. The stakes have been raised as everything feels a lot more personal and intense, with many unexpected twists that delightfully came out of nowhere and kept me on my toes. And I mean it, there were LITERALLY two giant stakes raised and maannn, this book did not mess around. Speaking of which, this brings up something else. For a novel called Promise of Blood, book 1 had an unsatisfyingly pathetic amount of actual bloodshed. For me, anyway. But from the get-go, The Crimson Campaign felt more gruesome and brutal and YES THANK YOU, I have been satiated. So, no complaints there. I really like the way T Double has been developed, especially Tamas. In this novel, we get a little more insight into what drives him and it made me realize how special Tamas is and that how McClellan has not created a one-dimensional leader AT ALL. And my dear sniper Taniel had his own amazing arc that surprisingly got emotional at times—which I love—and had some of the best action scenes of this entire series thus far. I need to make a special mention to a certain non-POV character, Olem! I really enjoyed his steady presence in PoB and loved him the same here. My precious little cigarette addict is so cute and adorable and has some of the best and funniest lines in this series that I absolutely live for Tamas’ POV just so that I can get more of him!But if I’m being honest, the main reason he’s a favourite is totally because the audiobook narrator does such an amazing job with his voice that I just want to listen to him talk ALL day, whoops. But really, the great character development also extended to so many others, creating a full cast of colourful and interesting characters, increasing this book’s enjoyment factor for me by heaps and loads.
I don’t want to vandalize this great book, but I had a few issues:
- Nila’s character is still totally pointless and lacking of focus and depth to me. Her screen time has increased only a little since the last book, but I still find her useless for the most part. It was only until the very end of her POV that something actually interesting happened and I have high hopes for her in book 3, but I hate that it took 2 books for her storyline to become meaningful. - We’ve still been given zero explanations on how the magic system works. I ignored this in PoB because I thought that with time, things would become clearer. But it hasn’t and there’s only one book left and I’m worried that by the end of it all, we’ll still be left in the dark and that really makes me sad because I just want to know the rules and how things work okay? But besides that, I had a blast reading this. It was fun, it was thrilling and it was filled with action and excitement. I’m already started The Autumn Republic, which has been fantastic so far, and I am super stoked to be finishing this series!