I probably should have written a review for this before plunging into the last book of the trilogy, but it could not be helped I had to know how it would all work out.Definitely better than Promise of Blood and a great action packed free-for-all. 

“One man always makes a difference. Sometimes it’s a small one. Other times, he tips a war.” 

I’m not huge on loving military campaigns and since this had 2 character PoVs with military type campaigns I should have been totally bored with this story and yet I wasn’t. Tamas is behind enemy lines cut off from the world and thought dead trying to get his smaller portion of the army back home to meet up with the main body. He is totally outnumbered by the Kez and in completely hostile territory but he shows us every step of the way why he is such a great military leader and how he became the man he is today.
“Let the Kez come,” Tamas roared. “Let them send their greatest generals after us. Let them stack the odds against us. Let them come upon us with all their fury, because these hounds at our heels will soon know we are lions!” 
 Taniel on the other hand has just recovered from the coma he suffered at the end of Promise of Blood and with KaPole’s help they are off to kill a god. If only they can find him and figure out how to kill him. I will say the KaPole is really a fun and amazing character. Sure her magic is still pretty mysterious to me and I want to know more about how it works. But while we get some hints there is always an air of mystery to it. I’m not sure how I feel about the burgeoning relationship between her and Taniel. I like Vlora and have this semi-hope that they work things out. But I’m torn since I really like KaPole too and whatever magic she has wrapped Taniel up in seems to be changing him into something….more.The final PoV was Adamat’s. He is trying to find where his family is being held and rescue them. He decides that he will need some major help if he is going to be able to save them. Bo seems like just the thing since he is one of the only privileged in the city. 
“You missed the morning’s festivities,” Bo said to Adamat “You call torturing a man ‘festivities’?” Adamat asked.“I’m not a good person,” Bo said.” 
Bo might not be a good person but he is definitely one of my favorite people in this series. His wry humor and interesting flexible morality just does something for me. He isn’t a good man but if he is your friend he is the BEST man. He and Adamat as a team go very well together.I really enjoy the blend of the war with the politics and a few of the Gods just wandering around. Adam reborn is probably one of my favorite gods in a book. I loved his approach to trying to help and yet not trying to be too involved or overly godly.
“God' is a funny word, it implies omnipotence and omniscience. Let me assure, I am neither.”
Overall, I found the pacing in this book to be better than the last and the coherence of the overall story seemed to be better than in Promise of Blood. This has been a really good fantasy series thus far and I was so excited to carry on with the series that I finished the last book before every writing this review. So I can say that it carries on in a great way and finishes spectacularly